FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

SUSE LLC.

SUSE Rancher Kubernetes Cryptographic
Library

Software Version:
2.0

Date: October 14, 2024

Prepared by:

Corsec Security, Inc.
12600 Fair Lakes Circle, Suite 210
Fairfax, VA 22033
United States of America

Phone: +1 703 267 6050
www.corsec.com

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 1 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Introduction
Federal  Information  Processing  Standards  Publication  140-3  —  Security  Requirements  for  Cryptographic
Modules speciﬁes  requirements  for  cryptographic  modules  to  be  deployed  in a  Sensitive  but  Unclassiﬁed
environment.  The  National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology  (NIST)  and  Canadian  Centre  for  Cyber
Security (CCCS) Cryptographic Module Validation Program (CMVP) run the FIPS 140-3 program. The NVLAP
accredits independent testing labs to perform FIPS 140-3 testing; the CMVP validates modules meeting FIPS
140-3 validation. Validated is the term given to a module that is documented and tested against the FIPS 140-
3 criteria.

Additional information is available on the CMVP website at:
https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program

About this Document
This non-proprietary Cryptographic Module Security Policy for the SUSE Rancher Kubernetes Cryptographic
Library from SUSE LLC. provides an overview of the product and a high-level description of how it meets the
overall Level 1 security requirements of FIPS 140-3.

The SUSE Rancher Kubernetes Cryptographic Library is also referenced in this document as the “module.”

Disclaimer
The  contents  of  this  document  are  subject  to  revision  without  notice  due  to  continued  progress  in
methodology, design, and manufacturing. SUSE LLC. shall have no liability for any error or damages of any
kind resulting from the use of this document.

Notices
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modiﬁcation.

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 2 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Table of Contents

Introduction ..................................................................................................................................................................... 2
About this Document ...................................................................................................................................................... 2
Disclaimer ........................................................................................................................................................................ 2
Notices ............................................................................................................................................................................. 2
1.   General .................................................................................................................................................................... 5
2.   Cryptographic Module Speciﬁcation ........................................................................................................................ 6
2.1 Overall Security Design and Rules of Operation ............................................................................................ 11
2.1.1 Usage of AES-GCM ............................................................................................................................. 11
2.1.2 RSA and ECDSA Keys ........................................................................................................................... 11
2.1.3 CSP Sharing ......................................................................................................................................... 11
2.1.4 Modes of Operation ........................................................................................................................... 11
3.   Cryptographic Module Interfaces .......................................................................................................................... 12
4.   Roles, Services, and Authentication ....................................................................................................................... 13
4.1 Roles ............................................................................................................................................................... 13
4.2 Authentication ............................................................................................................................................... 13
4.3 Services .......................................................................................................................................................... 13
5.   Software/Firmware Security .................................................................................................................................. 19
5.1 Module Format .............................................................................................................................................. 19
6.   Operational Environment ........................................................................................................................................ 19
7.   Physical Security .................................................................................................................................................... 19
8.   Non-invasive Security ............................................................................................................................................ 19
9.   Sensitive Security Parameter Management ........................................................................................................... 20
10. Self-Tests .................................................................................................................................................................. 25
10.1 Pre-Operational Self-Tests ............................................................................................................................ 25
10.2 Conditional Self-Tests ................................................................................................................................... 25
11. Life-Cycle Assurance ................................................................................................................................................ 27
11.1 Installation Instructions................................................................................................................................ 27
11.1.1 Building for Android ......................................................................................................................... 27
11.1.2 Building for Linux .............................................................................................................................. 28
11.1.3 Retrieving Module Name and Version ............................................................................................. 29
12. Mitigation of Other Attacks ..................................................................................................................................... 29
References and Standards ............................................................................................................................................. 30
Acronyms ....................................................................................................................................................................... 31

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 3 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

List of Tables
Table 1 - Security Levels .................................................................................................................................... 5
Table 2 - Tested Operational Environments ...................................................................................................... 7
Table 3 - Vendor Affirmed Operational Environments ..................................................................................... 7
Table 4 - Approved Algorithms .......................................................................................................................... 9
Table 5 - Non-Approved, Allowed Algorithms with No Security Claimed ....................................................... 10
Table 6 - Non-Approved, Not Allowed Algorithms .......................................................................................... 10
Table 7 - Ports and Interfaces .......................................................................................................................... 12
Table 8 - Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output ................................................................................... 13
Table 9 - Approved Services ............................................................................................................................ 17
Table 10 - Non-Approved Services .................................................................................................................. 18
Table 11 - SSPs ................................................................................................................................................. 24
Table 12 - Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification ..................................................... 25

List of Figures
Figure 1 - Module Boundary ............................................................................................................................ 10

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 4 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

1.   General
This document describes SUSE LLC.’s cryptographic module Security Policy (SP) for the SUSE Rancher
Kubernetes Cryptographic Library (Software version: 2.0) cryptographic module (also referred to as the
“module” hereafter). It contains speciﬁcation of the security rules under which the cryptographic module
operates, including the security rules derived from the requirements of the FIPS 140-3 standard. The
module is a software module and has a Multi-Chip Stand Alone embodiment.

The module meets the overall Level 1 security requirements of FIPS 140-3. The following table lists the level
of validation for each area in FIPS 140-3:

ISO/IEC 24759
Section 6.
1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security Level

General

Cryptographic Module Speciﬁcation

Cryptographic Module Interfaces

Roles, Services, and Authentication

Software/Firmware Security

Operational Environment

Physical Security

Non-Invasive Security

Sensitive Security Parameter
Management

Self-Tests

Life-Cycle Assurance

Mitigation of Other Attacks

Table 1 - Security Levels

1

1

1

1

1

1

N/A

N/A

1

1

1

N/A

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 5 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

2.   Cryptographic Module Speciﬁcation
The SUSE Rancher Kubernetes Cryptographic Library from SUSE LLC. is an open source software library that
contains cryptography to serve SUSE’s Rancher Kubernetes Engine and its ecosystem of supported cloud-
native tools written in the Go programming language. The module is intended for use in environments
speciﬁed in Table 2 below and any general-purpose environment that requires cryptographic primitives.
The Tested Operational Environment’s Physical Perimeter (TOEPP) of the module is the physical perimeter
of the tested environment, which is listed in Table 2 below. The module is a software module and has a
Multi-Chip Stand Alone embodiment. The installation instructions are provided in Section 11 of this
document.

The boundary of the module is deﬁned as a single object ﬁle, bcm.o. The module version is 2.0. The module
was tested on the following operational environments:

#

Operating System

Hardware Platform

Processor

PAA/Acceleration

1

Android 13

Google Pixel 7 Pro

2

Android 13

Google Pixel 7 Pro

3

Android 13

Google Pixel 6 Pro

4

Android 13

Google Pixel 6 Pro

5

Android 13

Google Pixel 5a

6

Android 13

Google Pixel 5a

7

Android 13

Google Pixel 4a

8

Android 13

Google Pixel 4a

9

Android 13

Google Pixel 4XL

10   Android 13

Google Pixel 4XL

Google Tensor G2 64-bit
and 32-bit

Google Tensor G2 64-bit
and 32-bit

Google Tensor 64-bit
and 32-bit

Google Tensor 64-bit
and 32-bit

Qualcomm Snapdragon 765
64-bit and 32-bit

Qualcomm Snapdragon 765
64-bit and 32-bit

Qualcomm Snapdragon 730
64-bit and 32-bit

Qualcomm Snapdragon 730
64-bit and 32-bit

Qualcomm Snapdragon 855
64- bit and 32-bit

Qualcomm Snapdragon 855
64- bit and 32-bit

11   Google Prodimage

IN762

with Linux 5.10.120

12   Google Prodimage

IN762

with Linux 5.10.120

IN762

IN762

With PAA

Without PAA

With PAA

Without PAA

With PAA

Without PAA

With PAA

Without PAA

With PAA

Without PAA

With PAA

Without PAA

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 6 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

#

Operating System

Hardware Platform

Processor

PAA/Acceleration

13   Google Prodimage
with Linux 4.15.0

14   Google Prodimage
with Linux 4.15.0

15   Debian Linux

5.17.11 (Rodete)

16   Debian Linux

5.17.11 (Rodete)

17   Google Prodimage
with Linux 4.15.0

18   Google Prodimage
with Linux 4.15.0

Tau t2a

Ampere Altra

With PAA

Tau t2a

Ampere Altra

Without PAA

n2d

n2d

n1

n1

AMD EPYC 7B12

With PAA

AMD EPYC 7B12

Without PAA

Intel Xeon E5 2696 v4

With PAA

Intel Xeon E5 2696 v4

Without PAA

Table 2 - Tested Operational Environments

The cryptographic module is also supported on the following operational environments for which
operational testing and algorithm testing was not performed. The CMVP makes no statement as to the
correct operation of the module on the operational environments for which operational testing was not
performed.

#
1

Operating System
Linux 4.X

2

Linux 5.X

3

Linux 6.X

Hardware Platform
x86_64 architecture
ARMv7 architecture
ARMv8 architecture

X86_64 architecture
ARMv7 architecture
ARMv8 architecture

x86_64 architecture
ARMv7 architecture
ARMv8 architecture

Table 3 - Vendor Affirmed Operational Environments

Table 4 below lists all the approved algorithms implemented in the module:

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 7 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

CAVP Cert1

Algorithm and
Standard

Mode/Method

A2811

A2811

A2811

A2811

AES
FIPS 197
SP800-38A

AES
FIPS 197
SP800-38D

AES
FIPS 197
SP800-38C

AES, KTS
FIPS 197
SP800-38F

CBC, ECB, CTR

GCM

CCM

KW, KWP

CVL A2811

TLS v1.0/1.1 and v1.2
KDF2
SP800-135rev1

N/A

Vendor Aﬃrmed   CKG

SP800-133rev2

A2811

DRBG
SP800-90Arev1

CTR_DRBG

Description / Key
Size(s) / Key
Strength(s)

Key sizes: 128, 192,
256 bits;
Strength: 128, 192,
256 bits

Key sizes: 128, 192,
256 bits;
Strength: 128, 192,
256 bits

Use / Function

Encryption, Decryption

Authenticated Encryption,
Authenticated Decryption

Key  size:  128  bits;
Strength: 128 bits

Authenticated Encryption,
Authenticated Decryption

Key sizes: 128, 192,
256 bits;
Strength: 128, 192,
256 bits

SHA2-256, SHA2-
384, SHA2-512;
Strength: 256, 384,
512 bits

Cryptographic Key
Generation:
Section 5: Generation
of Key Pairs for
Asymmetric-Key
Algorithms,
Section 6.1: The
“Direct Generation” of
Symmetric Keys

AES-256;
Key size: 256 bits;
Strength: 256 bits

Key Transport per IG D.G Key
establishment methodology
provides between 128 and 256
bits of encryption strength

Key Derivation

Key Generation
Symmetric keys and seeds are
generated as the direct output
of the DRBG

Random Bit Generation

1 There are algorithms that have been CAVP-tested on the same certiﬁcate but are not used by any approved service of the
module Only the algorithms, modes/methods, and key lengths/curves/moduli shown in this table are used by an approved
service of the module.
2 No parts of this protocol, other than the approved cryptographic algorithms and the KDFs, have been tested by the CAVP and
CMVP.

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 8 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

CAVP Cert1

Algorithm and
Standard

Mode/Method

Description / Key
Size(s) / Key
Strength(s)

Use / Function

A2811

ECDSA FIPS 186-4

Key Pair Generation,
Signature Generation,
Signature Veriﬁcation,
Public Key Validation

P-224, P-256, P-384,
P-521;
Strength: 112, 128,
192, 256 bits

Digital Signature Services

A2811

HMAC
FIPS 198-1

Generate, Verify

A2811

RSA
FIPS 186-4

Key Generation,
Signature Generation,
Signature Veriﬁcation
PKCS 1.5 and PSS

A2811

SHA
FIPS 180-4

Hashing

A2811

KAS-SSC
SP800-56Arev3

KAS-ECC-SSC
ephemeralUniﬁed

HMAC-SHA-1,
HMAC-SHA2-224,
HMAC-SHA2-256,
HMAC-SHA2-384,
HMAC-SHA2-512;
Strength: 128, 192,
256, 384, 512 bits

1024, 2048, 3072,
4096;
Strength: 80, 112,
128, 152 bits; Note:
Key size 1024 should
be only used for
Signature
Veriﬁcation

SHA-13, SHA2-224,
SHA2-256, SHA2-384,
SHA2-512, SHA2-
512/256;
Strength: 80, 112, 128,
192, 256, 128
bits

ECC: P-224, P-256, P-
384 and P-521;
Strength: 112, 128,
192, 256 bits

Generation, Authentication

Digital Signature Services

Digital Signature Generation,
Digital Signature Veriﬁcation,
Non-Digital Signature
Applications

Key Agreement Scheme Shared
Secret Computation per
SP800-56Arev3;

Key establishment methodology
provides between 112 and 256
bits of security strength

Table 4 - Approved Algorithms

3 Used for non-digital signature applications or to verify existing digital signatures only

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 9 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Algorithm

MD5

Caveat

Use / Function

As allowed per SP800-135rev1
(No security claimed)

When used with the TLS
protocol version 1.0 and 1.1

Table 5 - Non-Approved, Allowed Algorithms with No Security Claimed

Algorithm/Function

MD5, MD4

POLYVAL

DES, Triple-DES (non-compliant)

AES-GCM-SIV (non-compliant)

DH (non-compliant)

Use/Function

Non-Approved hashing

Non-Approved authenticated encryption

Non-Approved encryption/decryption

Non-Approved encryption/decryption

Non-Approved key agreement

Table 6 - Non-Approved, Not Allowed Algorithms

Physical Perimeter: General Purpose Computer

Application (out of validation scope)

Calling Function

Caller CSPs

API invocation

SUSE Rancher
Kubernetes
Cryptographic Library

System calls

System calls

Operating System

CPU

Memory

Storage

Ports

Figure 1 - Module Boundary

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 10 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

2.1 Overall Security Design and Rules of Operation

2.1.1 Usage of AES-GCM

AES GCM encryption and decryption are used in the context of the TLS protocol version 1.2 (compliant to
Scenario 1a in FIPS 140-3 IG C.H). The module is compliant with NIST SP 800-52 and the mechanism for IV
generation is compliant with RFC 5288. The module ensures that it is strictly increasing and thus cannot
repeat. When the IV exhausts the maximum number of possible values for a given session key, the ﬁrst
party (client or server) to encounter this condition may either trigger a handshake to establish a new
encryption key in accordance with RFC 5246 or fail. In either case, the module prevents any IV duplication
and thus enforces the security property.

The module’s IV is generated internally by the module’s Approved DRBG, which is internal to the module’s
boundary. The IV is 96 bits in length per NIST SP 800-38D, Section 8.2.2 and FIPS 140-3 IG C.H scenario 2.

The selection of the IV construction method is the responsibility of the user of this cryptographic module.
In approved mode, users of the module must not utilize GCM with an externally generated IV. Per FIPS 140-
3 IG C.H, in the event module power is lost and restored, the consuming application must ensure that any
of its AES-GCM keys used for encryption or decryption are re-distributed.

The module implements the TLS 1.2 KDF and other cryptographic primitives used in TLS 1.2, but does not
implement the TLS 1.2 protocol itself.

2.1.2 RSA and ECDSA Keys

The module allows the use of 1024-bit RSA keys for legacy purposes including signature generation, which
is disallowed in Approved mode as per NIST SP 800-131Arev2. Therefore, cryptographic operations with the
Non-Approved key sizes will result in the module operating in Non-Approved mode.

The elliptic curves utilized shall be the validated NIST-recommended curves and shall provide a minimum of
112 bits of encryption strength.

2.1.3 CSP Sharing

Non-Approved cryptographic algorithms shall not share the same key or CSP as an approved algorithm. As
such, Approved algorithms shall not use the keys generated by the module’s Non-Approved key generation
methods or the converse.

2.1.4 Modes of Operation

The module supports two modes of operation: Approved and Non-approved. The module will be in
approved mode when all self-tests have completed successfully, and only Approved algorithms are invoked.
See Table 4 above for a list of the supported Approved algorithms. The non-Approved mode is entered
when a non-Approved algorithm is invoked. See Table 6 for a list of non-Approved algorithms.

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 11 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

3.   Cryptographic Module Interfaces
The Data Input interface consists of the input parameters of the API functions. The Data Output interface
consists of the output parameters of the API functions. The Control Input interface consists of the actual API
input parameters. The Status Output interface includes the return values of the API functions.

Logical interface
Data Input

Data that passes over port/interface
API input parameters

Data Output

API output parameters and return values

Control Input

API input parameters

Status Output

API return values
Table 7 - Ports and Interfaces

The module does not implement a power input interface or a control output interface. As a software
module,  control  of  the  physical  ports  is  outside  the  module  scope.  However,  when  the  module  is
performing self-tests, or is in an error state, all output on the module’s logical data output interfaces is
inhibited.

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 12 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

4.   Roles, Services, and Authentication
4.1 Roles
The cryptographic module only implements a Crypto Oﬃcer (CO) role. The CO role is implicitly assumed by
the entity accessing services implemented by the module. An operator is considered the owner of the
thread that instantiates the module and, therefore, only one operator is allowed, and no concurrent
operators are allowed.

4.2 Authentication
The module does not support operator authentication.

4.3 Services
The  Approved  services  supported  by  the  module  and  access  rights  within  services  accessible  over  the
module’s public interface are listed in Table 8 below.

Role
CO
CO
CO

Service
Symmetric Encryption
Symmetric Decryption
Keyed Hashing

Input
Plaintext, encryption key
Ciphertext, decryption key
Message, key

CO
CO
CO
CO
CO

CO
CO

CO
CO
CO
CO
CO

Hashing
Random Bit Generation
Signature Generation
Signature Veriﬁcation
Key Transport

Key Agreement
TLS Key Derivation

Key Generation
Key Veriﬁcation
On-Demand Self-Test
Zeroization
Show Status

Message
API call parameters
Message, signing key
Signature, veriﬁcation key
API call parameters, wrapping
key
API call parameters
API call parameters, TLS pre-
master secret
API call parameters
API call parameters, key pair
N/A
N/A
API call parameters
Table 8 - Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

Output
Return code, ciphertext
Return code, plaintext
Return code, Message
Authentication Code
Return code, hash
Return code, random bits
Return code, signature
Return code
Return code, wrapped key

Return code, shared secret
Return code, TLS Key

Return code, key pair
Return code
Return code
N/A
Return code, status

Approved services are listed in Table 9. The SSPs listed in the table indicate the access required using below
notation:

G = Generate: The module generates or derives the SSP.
R = Read: The SSP is read from the module (e.g., the SSP is output).

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 13 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

W = Write: The SSP is updated, imported, or written to the module.
E = Execute: The module uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation.
Z = Zeroize: The module zeroizes the SSP.

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 14 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Service

Description

Symmetric Encryption   Perform symmetric

encryption operations

Symmetric Decryption   Perform symmetric

decryption operations

Keyed Hashing

Perform keyed hashing
operations

Approved Security
Functions
AES CBC, ECB, CTR,
CCM
(Cert. #A2811)
CKG

AES CBC, ECB, CTR,
GCM, CCM
(Cert. #A2811)
CKG

HMAC-SHA-1,
HMAC-SHA2-224,
HMAC-SHA2-256,
HMAC-SHA2-384,
HMAC-SHA2-512
(Cert. #A2811)

Hashing

Perform hashing operations  SHA-1, SHA2-224,
SHA2-256, SHA2-
384, SHA2-512,
SHA2-512/256
(Cert. #A2811)

Random Bit Generation   Generate random numbers   CTR_DRBG

(Cert. #A2811)
CKG

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles   Access Rights to

Indicator

Keys and/or SSPs

AES Key, AES-GCM Key

CO   W, E

AES Key, AES-GCM Key,
AES-GCM IV

CO   W, E

HMAC Key

CO   W, E

N/A

CO

N/A

DRBG Seed, CTR_DRBG V,
CTR_DRBG Key

CO

G, E

DRBG output

CTR_DRBG
Entropy Input

CO

G, R

CO   W, E

1

1

1

1

1

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                                                          Version 0.2

                                  Page 15 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Service

Description

Approved Security
Functions

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles   Access Rights to

Indicator

Keys and/or SSPs
G, W, E

1

CO

Signature Generation   Perform signing operations   CTR_DRBG,
RSA SigGen,
ECDSA SigGen
(Cert. #A2811)

RSA Signature
Generation Key,
ECDSA Signing Key

Signature Veriﬁcation   Perform veriﬁcation

operations

Key Transport

Perform key encryption
operations; KTS using AES-
KW, AES-KWP per IG
D.G

RSA SigVer,
ECDSA SigVer
(Cert. #A2811)

AES KW, KWP
(Cert. #A2811)
CKG

RSA Signature Veriﬁcation
Key,
ECDSA Veriﬁcation Key

CO

G, W, E

AES Wrapping Key

CO   W, E

Key Agreement

Perform key agreement
operations

KAS-ECC-SSC (Cert.
#A2811)

EC DH Private Key, EC DH
Public Key

CO

G, W, E

TLS Key Derivation

Perform key derivation
operations

TLS KDF
(Cert. #A2811)

Key Generation

Perform generation
operations

CTR_DRBG,
RSA KeyGen,
ECDSA KeyGen
(Cert. #A2811)
CKG

Shared Secret

G

TLS Pre-Master Secret

CO   W, E

TLS Master Secret

RSA Signature
Generation Key,
ECDSA Signing Key

G, E

CO

G, W, E

Key Veriﬁcation

Perform key pair
veriﬁcation operations

ECDSA  KeyVer  (Cert.
#A2811)

ECDSA Signing Key,
ECDSA Veriﬁcation Key

CO

G, W, E

On-Demand Self-Test

Execute self-tests on
demand

N/A

N/A

CO

N/A

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                                                          Version 0.2

                                  Page 16 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Service

Description

Zeroization

Show Status

Zeroize all SSPs

Obtain the module status
and versioning information

N/A

Table 9 - Approved Services

Approved Security
Functions
N/A

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles   Access Rights to

Indicator

All SSPs

N/A

Keys and/or SSPs
Z

N/A

N/A

N/A

CO

CO

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                                                          Version 0.2

                                  Page 17 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Non-Approved Services are listed in the Table 10 below:

Service

Description

Algorithms Accessed   Role

Indicator

Hashing (as allowed per
SP800-135rev1)

Perform hashing operations when used with
the TLS protocol version 1.0 and 1.1

MD5

Hashing

Hashing

Perform hashing operations

Used as part of AES-GCM-SIV

Symmetric
encryption/decryption

Perform symmetric encryption and/or
decryption operations

Key Generation

Perform generation operations

RSA Primitives (RSADP,
RSAEP, RSASP, RSAVP)

Perform RSA related primitive operations
(decrypt, encrypt, sign, verify)

Table 10 - Non-Approved Services

MD4

POLYVAL

DES
Triple-DES
AES

DH

RSA

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

0

0

0

0

0

0

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                                                          Version 0.2

                                  Page 18 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Software/Firmware Security

5.
The pre-operational integrity test is performed using HMAC-SHA2-256. The integrity test can be executed
on demand by power-cycling the host platform and reloading the module. The module does not support
software loading. Please refer to Section 11.1 for instructions on compiling the source code into
executable.

5.1 Module Format
The form of the module is a single object ﬁle, bcm.o.

6.   Operational Environment
The module runs on a GPC, which is a modiﬁable operational environment, running one of the operating
systems speciﬁed in Table 2. Each approved operating system manages processes and threads in a logically
separated manner. The module’s user is considered the owner of the calling application that instantiates the
module.

No speciﬁc security rules, settings or restrictions to the conﬁguration of the operational environment
applies to the module. The module is designed to ensure that all the self-tests are initiated automatically
when the module is loaded.

7.   Physical Security
As a software module, the physical security requirements are not applicable.

8.   Non-invasive Security
The module does not claim any non-invasive security measures.

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 19 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

9.

Sensitive Security Parameter Management

All the SSPs are zeroized implicitly when host platform is restarted. The various SSPs used by the module are listed in Table 11 below.

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import/ Export  Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation   Use & Related Keys

AES Key
(CSP)

AES-GCM Key
(CSP)

AES-GCM IV4
(CSP)

128/192/256 bits   AES-CBC, ECB,

External

CTR, CCM
A2811

128/192/256 bits   AES-GCM A2811   External

96 bits

AES-GCM A2811   External

AES Wrapping
Key
(CSP)

128/192/256 bits   AES-KW,
AES-KWP
A2811

External

N/A

Input via API in
plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)

N/A

Input via API in
plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)

N/A

Input via API in
plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)

N/A

Input via API in
plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
host

AES encrypt /
decrypt

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
host

AES decrypt / verify

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
host

AES decrypt / verify

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
Host

AES key wrapping

4 As speciﬁed in Section 2.1.1, usage of externally generated IV is only allowed for AES-GCM decryption in the approved mode of operation.
SUSE LLC. 2024                                                                                          Version 0.2

                                  Page 20 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import/ Export  Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation   Use & Related Keys

ECDSA Signing
Key
(CSP)

112/128/192/256
bits

ECDSA SigGen
A2811

Internally
Generated

ECDSA
Veriﬁcation Key
(PSP)

112/128/192/256
bits

ECDSA SigVer
A2811

Internally
Generated

EC DH
Private Key
(CSP)

112/128/192/256
bits

ECDSA KeyGen
A2811

Internally
Generated

N/A

Input via API in
plaintext
(Electronic
Entry);
Output via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)

N/A

Input via API in
plaintext
(Electronic
Entry);
Output via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)

N/A

Input via API in
plaintext
(Electronic
Entry);
Output via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
host

ECDSA signature
generation

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
Host

ECDSA signature
veriﬁcation

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
host

Key Agreement

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                                                          Version 0.2

                                  Page 21 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import/ Export  Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation   Use & Related Keys

EC DH Public
Key
(PSP)

112/128/192/256
bits

ECDSA KeyGen
A2811

Internally
Generated

HMAC Key
(CSP)

128/192/256/384
/512 bits

External

HMAC-SHA-1,
HMAC-SHA2-
224, HMAC-
SHA2-256,
HMAC-SHA2-
384, HMAC-
SHA2-512 A2811

N/A

Input via API in
plaintext
(Electronic
Entry);
Output via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)

N/A

Input via API in
plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
host

Key Agreement

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
host

Keyed hashing

Shared Secret
(CSP)

112/128/192/256
bits

KAS-ECC-SSC
A2811

Internally
Generated

N/A

SP800-56Arev3   Plaintext in

RAM

Power-cycle
host

Key Agreement

112, 128, 152 bits   RSA SigGen

A2811

Internally
Generated

RSA
Signature
Generation Key
(CSP)

N/A

Input via API in
plaintext
(Electronic
Entry);
Output via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
host

RSA signature
generation

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                                                          Version 0.2

                                  Page 22 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import/ Export  Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation   Use & Related Keys

RSA
Signature
Veriﬁcation
Key
(PSP)

TLS Master
Secret
(CSP)

80, 112, 128, 152
bits

RSA SigVer A2811  Internally

Generated

N/A

Input via API in
plaintext
(Electronic
Entry);
Output via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
host

RSA signature
veriﬁcation

384 bits

TLS KDF A2811

N/A

Internally
Derived via key
derivation
function deﬁned
in SP800-
135rev1
KDF (TLS)

N/A

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
host

TLS key derivation

112-256 bits

TLS KDF A2811   External

TLS Pre-Master
Secret
(CSP)

N/A

Input via API in
plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
host

TLS key derivation

DRBG Seed (CSP)  384 bits

CTR_DRBG A2811  Internally

N/A

N/A

Generated

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
host

DRBG Seeding
material

CTR_DRBG V
(CSP)

CTR_DRBG
Key
(CSP)

128 bits

CTR_DRBG A2811  Internally

N/A

N/A

Generated

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
host

DRBG internal state

256 bits

CTR_DRBG A2811  Internally

N/A

N/A

Generated

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-cycle
host

DRBG internal state

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                                                          Version 0.2

                                  Page 23 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import/ Export  Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation   Use & Related Keys

CTR_DRBG
Entropy Input
(CSP)

384 bits used as
seed, quality of
entropy at least
112 bits

CTR_DRBG A2811  External

N/A

Input via API in
plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)

DRBG output

2048 bits

CTR_DRBG A2811  Internally

N/A

N/A

Generated

Table 11 - SSPs

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-
cycle host

DRBG entropy

Plaintext in
RAM

Power-
cycle host

Random bits
provided for the
calling application

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                                                          Version 0.2

                                  Page 24 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Entropy sources

Minimum number of bits of
entropy

Details

Passive Entropy

112 bits and above

Use of a [SP800-90B] compliant entropy source
with at least 256 bits of security strength.

Entropy is supplied to the Module via callback
functions. The callback functions shall return an
error if the minimum entropy strength cannot
be met.

The caveat “No assurance of the minimum
strength of generated SSPs (e.g., keys)” is
applicable

Table 12 - Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification

10. Self-Tests
ISO/IEC  19790  requires  the  module  to  perform  self-tests  to  ensure  the  integrity  of  the  module  and  the
correctness of the cryptographic functionality. Some functions also require conditional tests during normal
operation of the module. The self-tests can be requested on demand by power cycling the host platform.
The module has a single error state, which is called the error state. This state is entered upon failure of a
self-test. The module indicates this error state by providing the output status “*** KAT failed” where *** is
the  algorithm  name  (example:  ECDSA-sign  KAT  failed).  The  module  can  be  recovered  by  terminating
execution of the host program and reclamation by the host operating system. The supported tests are listed
and described in this section.

10.1 Pre-Operational Self-Tests
Pre-operational self-tests are run upon the initialization of the module and further reboots of the host
platform. The CAST (Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Test) for HMAC-SHA2-256 is performed before the
integrity test. Self-tests do not require operator intervention to run. If any of the tests fail, the module will
not initialize and enter an error state where no services can be accessed.

The module implements the following pre-operational self-tests:

•  Software Integrity Test (HMAC-SHA2-256)

10.2 Conditional Self-Tests
Conditional  Cryptographic  Algorithm  Self-Tests  (CAST)  are  run  prior  to  the  ﬁrst  use  of  the  cryptographic
algorithm. CASTs do not require operator intervention to run. If any of the tests fail, the module will enter
an error state, and no services can be accessed.

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 25 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

The module implements the following CASTs:

•  ECDSA Signature Generation KAT (P-256)
•  ECSDA Signature Veriﬁcation KAT (P-256)
•  RSA Signature Generation KAT (2048 bits, PKCSv1.5)
•  RSA Signature Veriﬁcation KAT (2048 bits, PKCSv1.5)
•  SP800-56Arev3 KAS-ECC KAT (P-256)
•  AES CBC Encryption KAT (128 bits)
•  AES CBC Decryption KAT (128 bits)
•  AES-GCM Encryption KAT (128 bits)
•  AES-GCM Decryption KAT (128 bits)
•  CAST, performed on DRBG, per NIST SP800-90Arev1 Section 11.3 (Instantiate, Generate, Reseed)
•  TLS v1.2 KDF KAT
•  SHA-1 KAT
•  SHA2-256 KAT
•  SHA2-512 KAT
•  HMAC-SHA2-256 KAT

Conditional self-tests are run during the module’s operation. If any of these tests fail, the module will enter
an error state, where no services can be accessed by the operators. The module can be re- initialized to
clear the error and resume approved mode of operation.

The module implements the following conditional pairwise consistency tests. The below PCTs are executed
whenever a new key pair is generated:

•  ECDSA Pairwise Consistency Test
•  EC DH Pairwise Consistency Test
•  RSA Pairwise Consistency Test

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 26 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

11. Life-Cycle Assurance
The  cryptographic  module  is  initialized  by  loading  the  module  before  any  cryptographic  functionality  is
available. In User Space, the operating system is responsible for the initialization process and loading of the
library. There are no maintenance requirements applicable.

General  guidance  about  the  module  can  be  found  at  https://boringssl.googlesource.com/boringssl.  This
includes  information  about  the  APIs,  building  and  speciﬁc  information  related  to  FIPS  can  be  found  at
https://boringssl.googlesource.com/boringssl.git/+/refs/heads/ﬁps-
20220613/crypto/ﬁpsmodule/FIPS.md  (note  this  still  mentions  140-2,  but  the  information  there  is  the
same).

11.1 Installation Instructions
The module is open source. A Linux workstation with the following tools is required to build and compile the
module:

Android 13

git 2.23 or later (https://git-scm.com/download/linux)
base64, curl, sha256sum (these should come with the Linux installation)

Linux

Clang compiler version 14.0.0 (http://releases.llvm.org/download.html)
Go programming language version 1.18.1 (https://golang.org/dl/)
Ninja build system version 1.10.2 (https://github.com/ninja- build/ninja/releases)
Cmake version 3.22.1 (https://cmake.org/download/)

11.1.1 Building for Android
Once  a  Linux  workstation  with  the  above  tools  has  been  obtained,  issue  the  following  commands  to
download and verify repo:
curl 'https://gerrit.googlesource.com/git-repo/+/e778e57f11/repo?format=TEXT' | base64 -d > ~/repo
chmod u+x ~/repo
gpg --recv-key 8BB9AD793E8E6153AF0F9A4416530D5E920F5C65
curl https://storage.googleapis.com/git-repo-downloads/repo.asc | gpg --verify - ~/repo

Download the manifest from https://ci.android.com/builds/submitted/8918218/aosp_arm64-
userdebug/latest/manifest_8918218.xml by clicking the Download button.

Verify the manifest using the following command:
Sha256sum ~/manifest_8918218.xml

Manually validate that the output from the ﬁnal command indicates the following expected hash values for
this ﬁle:

fae7a587167b3b3ebdf5b2c53335a1d1827beddcf23d2788d07f3bbbe9ﬀ7182 manifest_8918218.xml

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 27 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

The module can be obtained by issuing the following commands:

mkdir aosp cd
aosp
~/repo init -u https://android.googlesource.com/platform/manifest --depth 1
~/repo init -m ~/manifest_8918218.xml
~/repo sync -q -c -j 20

Once downloaded, the module can be built using the following command:
. build/envsetup.sh
lunch aosp_arm64-eng
m clean
m test_fips

11.1.2 Building for Linux
Once the above tools have been obtained, issue the following command to create a Cmake toolchain ﬁle to
specify the use of Clang:

printf "set(CMAKE_C_COMPILER \"clang\")\nset(CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER \"clang++\")\n" > ${HOME}/toolchain

The FIPS 140-3 validated release of the module can be obtained by downloading the tarball containing the
source code at the following location:

https://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/chromium-boringssl-ﬁps/boringssl-
0c6f40132b828e92ba365c6b7680e32820c63fa7.tar.xz or by issuing the following command:

wget https://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/chromium-boringssl-fips/boringssl-
0c6f40132b828e92ba365c6b7680e32820c63fa7.tar.xz

The set of ﬁles speciﬁed in the archive constitutes the complete set of source ﬁles of the validated module.
There shall be no additions, deletions, or alterations of this set as used during module build.

The downloaded tarball ﬁle can be veriﬁed using the below SHA2-256 digest value:

62f733289f2d677c2723f556aa58034c438f3a7bbca6c12b156538a88e38da8a

By issuing the following command:

sha256sum boringssl-0c6f40132b828e92ba365c6b7680e32820c63fa7.tar.xz

The tarball can be extracted using the following command:

tar xJ < boringssl-0c6f40132b828e92ba365c6b7680e32820c63fa7.tar.xz

After the tarball has been extracted, the following commands will compile the module:

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 28 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

cd boringssl
mkdir build && cd build && cmake -GNinja -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=${HOME}/toolchain -DFIPS=1 -
DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
ninja && ninja run_tests

11.1.3 Retrieving Module Name and Version

The following methods will provide the module name and versions:

•  FIPS_module_name()  –  BoringCrypto  (correlating  to  “SUSE  Rancher  Kubernetes  Cryptographic

Library” on the validation certiﬁcate)

•  FIPS_version() – 2022061300 (correlating to “2.0” on the validation certiﬁcate)

12. Mitigation of Other Attacks

The module is not designed to mitigate attacks which are outside of the scope of FIPS 140-3.

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 29 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

References and Standards
The following Standards are referenced in this Security Policy:

Abbreviation

FIPS 140-3
FIPS 180-4
FIPS 186-4
FIPS 197
FIPS 198-1
IG

SP 800-38A

SP 800-38C

SP 800-38D

SP 800-38F

SP 800-52

SP 800-56A

SP 800-90A

SP 800-131A
SP 800-133
SP 800-135

Full Speciﬁcation Name
Security Requirements for Cryptographic modules
Secure Hash Standard (SHS)
Digital Signature Standard (DSS)
Advanced Encryption Standard
The Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code (HMAC)
Implementation Guidance for FIPS PUB 140-3 and the Cryptographic
Module Validation Program
Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Three Variants of
Ciphertext Stealing for CBC Mode
Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: the CCM Mode for
Authentication and Conﬁdentiality
Recommendation  for  Block  Cipher  Modes  of  Operation:  Galois/Counter
Mode (GCM) and GMAC
Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Methods for Key
Wrapping
Guidelines  for  the  Selection,  Conﬁguration,  and  Use  of  Transport  Layer
Security (TLS) Implementations
Recommendation for Pair-Wise Key Establishment Schemes Using Discrete
Logarithm Cryptography
Recommendation  for  Random  Number  Generation  Using  Deterministic
Random Bit Generators
Transitioning the Use of Cryptographic Algorithms and Key Lengths
Recommendation for Cryptographic Key Generation
Recommendation for Existing Application-Speciﬁc Key Derivation Functions

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 30 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Acronyms

Acronym
AES
API
CAVP
CBC
CCCS
CFB
CKG
CMVP
CO
CRNGT
CSP
CTR
DES
DH
DRBG
DSS
EC
ECB
ECC
EC DH
ECDSA
FIPS
GCM
GMAC
GPC
HMAC
IG
IV
KAS
KAT
KDF
KW
KWP
LLC
MAC
MD4
MD5
N/A
NIST
NVLAP

Deﬁnition

Advanced Encryption Standard
Application Programming Interface
Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program
Cipher-Block Chaining
Canadian Centre for Cyber Security
Cipher Feedback
Cooperative Key Generation
Crypto Module Validation Program
Cryptographic Oﬃcer
Continuous Random Number Generator Test
Critical Security Parameter
Counter-mode
Data Encryption Standard
Diﬃe-Hellman
Deterministic Random Bit Generator
Digital Signature Standard
Elliptic Curve
Electronic Code Book
Elliptic Curve Cryptography
Elliptic Curve Diﬃe-Hellman
Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Authority
Federal Information Processing Standards
Galois/Counter Mode
Galois Message Authentication Code
General Purpose Computer
Key-Hashed Message Authentication Code
Implementation Guidance
Initialization Vector
Key Agreement Scheme
Known Answer Test
Key Derivation Function
Key Wrap
Key Wrap with Padding
Limited Liability Company
Message Authentication Code
Message Digest algorithm MD4
Message Digest algorithm MD5
Not-Applicable
National Institute of Standards and Technology
National Voluntary Lab Accreditation Program

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 31 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

OFB
PAA
RAM
RFC
RSA
SHA
SHS
SP
SSL
TLS
Triple-DES

Output Feedback
Processor Algorithm Accelerator
Random Access Memory
Request For Comment
Rivest Shamir Adleman
Secure Hash Algorithm
Secure Hash Standard
Special Publication
Secure Socket Layer
Transport Layer Security
Triple Data Encryption Standard

SUSE LLC. 2024                                                          Version 0.2                                                          Page 32 of 32

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

