FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Tetrate.io, Inc
Tetrate BoringCrypto

Software Version:
2022061300

Date: November 19, 2024

Prepared by:

www.acumensecurity.net

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                         Version 1.0                                                        Page 1 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Introduction
Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 140-3 — Security Requirements for Cryptographic
Modules specifies requirements for cryptographic modules to be deployed in a Sensitive but Unclassified
environment. The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and Canadian Centre for Cyber
Security (CCCS) Cryptographic Module Validation Program (CMVP) run the FIPS 140-3 program. The NVLAP
accredits independent testing labs to perform FIPS 140-3 testing; the CMVP validates modules meeting FIPS
140-3 validation. Validated is the term given to a module that is documented and tested against the FIPS
140-3 criteria.

Additional information is available on the CMVP website at:
https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program

About this Document

This non-proprietary Cryptographic Module Security Policy for Tetrate BoringCrypto from Tetrate.io, Inc
provides an  overview  of  the  product  and  a  high-level  description  of  how  it  meets  the  overall  Level  1
security requirements of FIPS 140-3.

The Tetrate BoringCrypto module is also referenced in this document as the “module.”

Disclaimer

The  contents  of  this  document  are  subject  to  revision  without  notice  due  to  continued  progress  in
methodology, design, and manufacturing.  Tetrate.io, Inc shall have no liability for any error or damages
of any kind resulting from the use of this document.

Notices

This document may be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                         Version 1.0                                                        Page 2 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Table of Contents

Introduction ..................................................................................................................................................................... 2
About this Document ....................................................................................................................................................... 2
Disclaimer......................................................................................................................................................................... 2
Notices ...................................................................................................................................................................................... 2
General ................................................................................................................................................................... 5
1.
Cryptographic Module Specification ..................................................................................................................... 6
2.
Overall Security Design and Rules of Operation ................................................................................................. 10
2.1
2.1.1 Usage of AES-GCM .................................................................................................................................................... 10
2.1.2 RSA and ECDSA Keys ................................................................................................................................................. 10
2.1.3 CSP Sharing ............................................................................................................................................................... 10
2.1.4 Modes of Operation ................................................................................................................................................. 10
Cryptographic Module Interfaces ........................................................................................................................ 11
Roles, Services, and Authentication .................................................................................................................... 12
Roles ..................................................................................................................................................................... 12
Authentication ..................................................................................................................................................... 12
Services ................................................................................................................................................................. 12
Software/Firmware Security ................................................................................................................................ 16
Module Format .................................................................................................................................................... 16
Operational Environment .................................................................................................................................... 16
Physical Security ................................................................................................................................................... 16
Non-invasive Security ........................................................................................................................................... 16
Sensitive Security Parameter Management ........................................................................................................ 17
Self-Tests .............................................................................................................................................................. 21
Pre-Operational Self-Tests ................................................................................................................................... 21
Conditional Self-Tests .......................................................................................................................................... 21
Life-Cycle Assurance............................................................................................................................................. 23
Installation Instructions ....................................................................................................................................... 23
    11.1.1 Building for Linux................................................................................................................................................. 23
    11.1.2 Retrieving Module Name and Version ............................................................................................................... 25
12.
Mitigation of Other Attacks ................................................................................................................................. 25
References and Standards ..................................................................................................................................................... 26
Acronyms ................................................................................................................................................................................ 27

3.
4.
    4.1
    4.2
    4.3
5.
    5.1
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
    10.1
    10.2
11.
    11.1

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                         Version 1.0                                                        Page 3 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

List of Tables

Table 1 - Security Levels .................................................................................................................................... 5
Table 2 - Tested Operational Environments ...................................................................................................... 6
Table 3 - Vendor Affirmed Operational Environments ..................................................................................... 6
Table 4 - Approved Algorithms .......................................................................................................................... 8
Table 5 - Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security Claimed 8
Table 6 - Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation .................................. 9
Table 7 - Ports and Interfaces .......................................................................................................................... 11
Table 8 - Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output ................................................................................... 12
Table 9 - Approved Services ............................................................................................................................ 14
Table 10 - Non-Approved Services .................................................................................................................. 15
Table 11 – SSP .................................................................................................................................................. 20
Table 12 - Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification ..................................................... 21

List of Figures

Figure 1 – Tetrate BoringCrypto boundary ....................................................................................................... 9

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                         Version 1.0                                                        Page 4 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

1.  General

This document describes Tetrate.io, Inc cryptographic module Security Policy (SP) for the Tetrate
BoringCrypto (Software version: 2022061300) cryptographic module (also referred to as the “module”
hereafter).  It contains specification of the security rules under which the cryptographic module
operates, including the security rules derived from the requirements of the FIPS 140-3 standard. The
module is a software module and has a Multi-Chip Stand Alone embodiment.

The module meets the overall Level 1 security requirements of FIPS 140-3. The following table lists the
level of validation for each area in FIPS 140-3:

ISO/IEC 24759
Section 6.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9

10
11
12

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security Level

General
Cryptographic Module Specification
Cryptographic Module Interfaces
Roles, Services, and Authentication
Software/Firmware Security
Operational Environment
Physical Security
Non-Invasive Security
Sensitive Security Parameter
Management
Self-Tests
Life-Cycle Assurance
Mitigation of Other Attacks

Table 1 - Security Levels

1
1
1
1
1
1
N/A
N/A
1

1
1
N/A

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                         Version 1.0                                                        Page 5 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

2.  Cryptographic Module Specification

Tetrate BoringCrypto module by Tetrate.io, Inc is an open-source, general-purpose cryptographic library
which provides approved cryptographic algorithms to serve BoringSSL and other user-space
applications. The module is intended for use in environments specified in Table 2 below and any general-
purpose environment that requires cryptographic primitives. The Tested Operational Environment’s
Physical Perimeter (TOEPP) of the module is the physical perimeter of the tested environment, which is
listed in Table 2 below. The module is a software module and has a Multi-Chip Stand Alone embodiment.
The installation instructions are provided in Section 11 of this document.

The boundary of the module is defined as a single object file, bcm.o. The module version is:
2022061300. The module was tested on the following operational environments:

#

1

Operating
System
Debian Linux
5.17.11 (Rodete)

12  Debian Linux

5.17.11 (Rodete)

Hardware Platform

Processor

PAA/Acceleration

n2d

n2d

AMD EPYC 7B12

With PAA

AMD EPYC 7B12

Without PAA

Table 2 - Tested Operational Environments

The cryptographic module is also supported on the following operational environments for which
operational testing and algorithm testing was not performed. The CMVP makes no statement as to the
correct operation of the module on the operational environments for which operational testing was not
performed.

#
1

Operating System
Linux 4.X

2

Linux 5.X

3

Linux 6.X

Hardware Platform
x86_64 architecture
ARMv7 architecture
ARMv8 architecture
X86_64 architecture
ARMv7 architecture
ARMv8 architecture
x86_64 architecture
ARMv7 architecture
ARMv8 architecture

Table 4 below lists all the approved algorithms implemented in the module:

Table 3 - Vendor Affirmed Operational Environments

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                         Version 1.0                                                        Page 6 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

CAVP Cert1

Algorithm and
Standard

Mode/Method

A2811

A2811

A2811

A2811

CVL
A2811

AES
FIPS 197
SP800-38A

AES
FIPS 197
SP800-38D

AES FIPS 197
SP800-38C

AES, KTS
FIPS 197
SP800-38F

CBC, ECB, CTR

GCM

CCM

KW, KWP

TLS v1.0/1.1 and v1.2
KDF2
SP800-135rev1

N/A

Vendor Affirmed  CKG

SP800-133rev2

A2811

DRBG
SP800-90Arev1

CTR_DRBG

A2811

ECDSA FIPS 186-4

Key Pair Generation,
Signature Generation,
Signature Verification,
Public Key Validation

Use / Function

Encryption, Decryption

Authenticated Encryption,
Authenticated Decryption

Authenticated Encryption,
Authenticated Decryption

Key Transport per IG D.G
Key establishment methodology
provides between 128 and 256
bits of encryption strength
Key Derivation

Key Generation
Symmetric keys and seeds are
generated as the direct output
of the DRBG

Random Bit Generation

Digital Signature Services

Description / Key
Size(s) / Key
Strength(s)

Key sizes: 128, 192,
256 bits;
Strength: 128, 192,
256 bits
Key sizes: 128, 192,
256 bits;
Strength: 128, 192,
256 bits
Key size: 128 bits;
Strength: 128 bits

Key sizes: 128, 192,
256 bits;
Strength: 128, 192,
256 bits
SHA2-256, SHA2-
384, SHA2-512;
Strength: 256, 384,
512 bits
Cryptographic Key
Generation:
Section 5: Generation
of Key Pairs for
Asymmetric-Key
Algorithms,
Section 6.1: The
“Direct Generation”
of Symmetric Keys
AES-256;
Key size: 256 bits;
Strength: 256 bits
P-224, P-256, P-384,
P-521;
Strength: 112, 128,
192, 256 bits

1 There are algorithms that have been CAVP-tested on the same certificate but are not used by any approved service
of the module Only the algorithms, modes/methods, and key lengths/curves/moduli shown in this table are used by
an approved service of the module.
2 No parts of this protocol, other than the approved cryptographic algorithms and the KDFs, have been tested by the
CAVP and CMVP.

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                         Version 1.0                                                        Page 7 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

CAVP Cert1

Algorithm and
Standard

Mode/Method

A2811

HMAC
FIPS 198-1

Generate, Verify

A2811

RSA
FIPS 186-4

Key Generation,
Signature Generation,
Signature Verification
PKCS 1.5 and PSS

A2811

SHA
FIPS 180-4

Hashing

A2811

KAS-SSC
SP800-56Arev3

KAS-ECC-SSC
ephemeralUnified

Description / Key
Size(s) / Key
Strength(s)

HMAC-SHA-1,
HMAC-SHA2-224,
HMAC-SHA2-256,
HMAC-SHA2-384,
HMAC-SHA2-512;
Strength: 128, 192,
256, 384, 512 bits
1024, 2048, 3072,
4096;
Strength: 80, 112,
128, 152 bits;
Note: Key size 1024
should be only used
for Signature
Verification
SHA-13, SHA2-224,
SHA2-256, SHA2-384,
SHA2-512, SHA2-
512/256;
Strength: 80, 112,
128, 192, 256, 128
bits
ECC: P-224, P-256, P-
384 and P-521;
Strength: 112, 128,
192, 256 bits

Use / Function

Generation, Authentication

Digital Signature Services

Digital Signature Generation,
Digital Signature Verification,
Non-Digital Signature
Applications

Key Agreement Scheme Shared
Secret Computation per
SP800-56Arev3;

Key establishment methodology
provides between 112 and 256
bits of security strength

Table 4 - Approved Algorithms

Algorithm
MD5

Caveat
As allowed per SP800-135rev1
(No security claimed)

Use / Function
When used with the TLS
protocol version 1.0 and 1.1

Table 5 - Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security Claimed

3 Used for non-digital signature applications or to verify existing digital signatures only
Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                         Version 1.0                                                        Page 8 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Algorithm/Function
MD5, MD4
POLYVAL
DES, Triple-DES (non-compliant)
AES-GCM-SIV (non-compliant)
DH (non-compliant)

Use/Function
Non-Approved hashing
Non-Approved authenticated encryption
Non-Approved encryption/decryption
Non-Approved encryption/decryption
Non-Approved key agreement

Table 6 - Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation

Figure 1 -Tetrate BoringCrypto boundary

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                         Version 1.0                                                        Page 9 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

2.1  Overall Security Design and Rules of Operation

2.1.1 Usage of AES-GCM

AES GCM encryption and decryption are used in the context of the TLS protocol version 1.2 (compliant
to Scenario 1a in FIPS 140-3 IG C.H). The module is compliant with NIST SP 800-52 and the mechanism
for IV generation is compliant with RFC 5288. The module ensures that it is strictly increasing and thus
cannot repeat. When the IV exhausts the maximum number of possible values for a given session key,
the first party (client or server) to encounter this condition may either trigger a handshake to establish
a new encryption key in accordance with RFC 5246 or fail. In either case, the module prevents any IV
duplication and thus enforces the security property.

The module’s IV is generated internally by the module’s Approved DRBG, which is internal to the
module’s boundary. The IV is 96 bits in length per NIST SP 800-38D, Section 8.2.2 and FIPS 140-3 IG C.H
scenario 2.

The selection of the IV construction method is the responsibility of the user of this cryptographic
module. In approved mode, users of the module must not utilize GCM with an externally generated IV.
Per IG C.H, in the event module power is lost and restored, the consuming application must ensure that
any of its AES-GCM keys used for encryption or decryption are re-distributed.

The module implements the KDF TLS 1.2, and other cryptographic primitives used in TLS 1.2, but does
not implement the TLS 1.2 protocol itself.

2.1.2 RSA and ECDSA Keys

The module allows the use of 1024-bit RSA keys for legacy purposes including signature generation,
which is disallowed in Approved mode as per NIST SP800-131Arev2. Therefore, cryptographic
operations with the Non-Approved key sizes will result in the module operating in Non-Approved
mode.

The elliptic curves utilized shall be the validated NIST-recommended curves and shall provide a
minimum of 112 bits of encryption strength.

2.1.3 CSP Sharing

Non-Approved cryptographic algorithms shall not share the same key or CSP as an approved algorithm.
As such, Approved algorithms shall not use the keys generated by the module’s Non-Approved key
generation methods or the converse.

2.1.4 Modes of Operation

The module supports two modes of operation: Approved and Non-approved. The module will be in
approved mode when all self-tests have completed successfully, and only Approved algorithms are
invoked. See Table 4 above for a list of the supported Approved algorithms. The non-Approved mode is
entered when a non-Approved algorithm is invoked. See Table 6 for a list of non-Approved algorithms.

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                         Version 1.0                                                        Page 10 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

3.  Cryptographic Module Interfaces

The Data Input interface consists of the input parameters of the API functions. The Data Output
interface consists of the output parameters of the API functions. The Control Input interface consists of
the actual API input parameters. The Status Output interface includes the return values of the API
functions.

Logical interface
Data Input
Data Output
Control Input
Status Output

Data that passes over port/interface
API input parameters
API output parameters and return values
API input parameters
API return values
Table 7 - Ports and Interfaces

The module does not implement a power input interface or a control output interface. As a software
module,  control  of  the  physical  ports  is  outside  the  module  scope.  However,  when  the  module  is
performing self-tests, or is in an error state, all output on the module’s logical data output interfaces
is inhibited.

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                         Version 1.0                                                        Page 11 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

4.  Roles, Services, and Authentication

4.1  Roles
The cryptographic module only implements a Crypto Officer (CO) role. The CO role is implicitly assumed
by the entity accessing services implemented by the module. An operator is considered the owner of the
thread that instantiates the module and, therefore, only one operator is allowed, and no concurrent
operators are allowed.
4.2  Authentication
The module does not support operator authentication.

4.3  Services
The Approved services supported by the module and access rights within services accessible over the
module’s public interface are listed in the table below:

Output
Return code, ciphertext
Return code, plaintext
Return code, Message
Authentication Code
Return code, hash
Return code, random bits
Return code, signature
Return code

Role
CO
CO
CO

Service
Symmetric Encryption
Symmetric Decryption
Keyed Hashing

Input
Plaintext, encryption key
Ciphertext, decryption key
Message, key

CO
CO
CO
CO
CO
CO
CO

CO
CO
CO
CO
CO

Hashing
Random Bit Generation
Signature Generation
Signature Verification
Key Transport
Key Agreement
TLS Key Derivation

Key Generation
Key Verification
On-Demand Self-Test
Zeroization
Show Status

Message
API call parameters
Message, signing key
Signature, verification key
API call parameters, wrapping key  Return code, wrapped key
Return code, shared secret
API call parameters
Return code, TLS Key
API call parameters, TLS pre-
master secret
API call parameters
API call parameters, key pair
N/A
N/A
API call parameters

Return code, key pair
Return code
Return code
N/A
Return code, status

Table 8 - Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

Approved services are listed in Table 9. The SSPs listed in the table indicate the access required using below
notation:

G = Generate: The module generates or derives the SSP.
R = Read: The SSP is read from the module (e.g., the SSP is output).
W = Write: The SSP is updated, imported, or written to the module.
E = Execute: The module uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation.
Z = Zeroize: The module zeroizes the SSP.

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                         Version 1.0                                                        Page 12 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Service

Description

Symmetric Encryption  Perform symmetric

encryption operations

Symmetric Decryption  Perform symmetric

decryption operations

Keyed Hashing

Perform keyed hashing
operations

Approved Security
Functions
AES CBC, ECB, CTR,
CCM
(Cert. #A2811)
CKG
AES CBC, ECB, CTR,
GCM, CCM
(Cert. #A2811)
CKG
HMAC-SHA-1,
HMAC-SHA2-224,
HMAC-SHA2-256,
HMAC-SHA2-384,
HMAC-SHA2-512
(Cert. #A2811)

Keys and/or SSPs

AES Key, AES-GCM Key

Roles  Access Rights to
Keys and/or SSPs
W, E

CO

AES Key, AES-GCM Key,
AES-GCM IV

CO

W, E

HMAC Key

CO

W, E

Hashing

Random Bit
Generation

Perform hashing operations  SHA-1, SHA2-224,
SHA2-256, SHA2-
384, SHA2-512,
SHA2-512/256
(Cert. #A2811)

Generate random numbers  CTR_DRBG

(Cert. #A2811)
CKG

Signature Generation

Signature Verification

Perform signing operations  CTR_DRBG,
RSA SigGen,
ECDSA SigGen
(Cert. #A2811)
RSA SigVer,
ECDSA SigVer
(Cert. #A2811)

Perform verification
operations

N/A

CO

N/A

DRBG Seed, CTR_DRBG
V, CTR_DRBG Key
DRBG output
CTR_DRBG
Entropy Input
RSA Signature
Generation Key,
ECDSA Signing Key

CO

CO
CO

G, E

G, R
W, E

CO

G, W, E

RSA Signature Verification
Key,
ECDSA Verification Key

CO

G, W, E

Indicator

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                                                   Version 1.0

                                  Page 13 of 28

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Key Transport

Key Agreement

Perform key encryption
operations; KTS using
AES-KW, AES-KWP per IG
D.G
Perform key agreement
operations

AES KW, KWP
(Cert. #A2811)
CKG

KAS-ECC-SSC
(Cert. #A2811)

TLS Key Derivation

Perform key derivation
operations

TLS KDF
(Cert. #A2811)

Key Generation

Perform generation
operations

Key Verification

Perform key pair
verification operations

CTR_DRBG,
RSA KeyGen,
ECDSA KeyGen
(Cert. #A2811)
CKG
ECDSA KeyVer
(Cert. #A2811)

On-Demand Self-Test

Zeroization
Show Status

Execute self-tests on
demand
Zeroize all SSPs
Obtain the module status
and versioning
information

N/A

N/A
N/A

AES Wrapping Key

CO

W, E

EC DH Private Key, EC
DH Public Key
Shared Secret
TLS Pre-Master Secret

TLS Master Secret
RSA Signature
Generation Key,
ECDSA Signing Key

CO

G, W, E

G
W, E

G, E
G, W, E

CO

CO

ECDSA Signing Key,
ECDSA Verification Key

CO

G, W, E

N/A

All SSPs
N/A

CO

N/A

CO
CO

Z
N/A

1

1

1

1

1

1

N/A
N/A

Table 9 - Approved Services

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                                                   Version 1.0

                                  Page 14 of 28

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Non-Approved Services are listed in the Table 10 below:

Service
Hashing (as allowed per
SP800-135rev1)
Hashing
Hashing

Description
Perform hashing operations when used with
the TLS protocol version 1.0 and 1.1
Perform hashing operations
Used as part of AES-GCM-SIV

Symmetric
encryption/decryption

Perform symmetric encryption and/or
decryption operations

Key Generation
RSA Primitives (RSADP,
RSAEP, RSASP, RSAVP)

Perform generation operations
Perform RSA related primitive operations
(decrypt, encrypt, sign, verify)

Table 10 - Non-Approved Services

Algorithms Accessed  Role
MD5

CO

Indicator
0

MD4
POLYVAL

DES
Triple-DES
AES
DH
RSA

CO
CO

CO

CO
CO

0
0

0

0
0

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                                                   Version 1.0

                                  Page 15 of 28

Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

5.

Software/Firmware Security

The pre-operational integrity test is performed using HMAC-SHA2-256. The integrity test can be
executed on demand by power-cycling the host platform and reloading the module. The module does
not support software loading. Please refer to Section 11.1 for instructions on compiling the source code
into executable.

5.1  Module Format
The form of the module is a single object file, bcm.o.

6.  Operational Environment

The module runs on a GPC, which is a modifiable operational environment, running one of the operating
systems specified in Table 2. Each approved operating system manages processes and threads in a
logically separated manner. The module’s user is considered the owner of the calling application that
instantiates the module.

No specific security rules, settings or restrictions to the configuration of the operational environment
applies to the module. The module is designed to ensure that all the self-tests are initiated
automatically when the module is loaded.

7.

Physical Security

As a software module, the physical security requirements are not applicable.

8.  Non-invasive Security

The module does not claim any non-invasive security measures.

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                          Version 1.0                                                           Page 16 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

9.

Sensitive Security Parameter Management

All the SSPs are zeroized implicitly when host platform is restarted. The various SSPs used by the module are listed in Table 11 below:

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import/
Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation

Use & Related
Keys

AES Key
(CSP)

128/192/256 bits  AES-CBC, ECB,

External

CTR, CCM
A2811

AES-GCM Key
(CSP)

128/192/256 bits  AES-GCM

External

A2811

AES-GCM IV4
(CSP)

96 bits

AES-GCM
A2811

External

AES Wrapping
Key
(CSP)

128/192/256 bits  AES-KW,
AES-KWP
A2811

External

ECDSA Signing
Key
(CSP)

112/128/192/256
bits

ECDSA SigGen
A2811

Internally
Generated

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Input via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)
Input via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)
Input via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)
Input via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)
Input via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry);
Output via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

AES encrypt /
decrypt

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

AES decrypt /
verify

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

AES decrypt /
verify

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
Host

AES key wrapping

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

ECDSA signature
generation

4 As specified in Section 2.1.1, usage of externally generated IV is only allowed for AES-GCM decryption in the approved mode of operation.
Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                                                 Version 1.0                                                                                          Page 17 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import/
Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation

Use & Related
Keys

ECDSA
Verification Key
(PSP)

112/128/192/256
bits

ECDSA SigVer
A2811

Internally
Generated

EC DH
Private Key
(CSP)

112/128/192/256
bits

ECDSA KeyGen
A2811

Internally
Generated

EC DH Public
Key
(PSP)

112/128/192/256
bits

ECDSA KeyGen
A2811

Internally
Generated

HMAC Key
(CSP)

128/192/256/384
/512 bits

External

HMAC-SHA-1,
HMAC-SHA2-
224, HMAC-
SHA2-256,
HMAC-SHA2-
384, HMAC-

Input via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry);
Output via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)
Input via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry);
Output via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)
Input via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry);
Output via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)
Input via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)

N/A

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
Host

ECDSA signature
verification

N/A

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

Key Agreement

N/A

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

Key Agreement

N/A

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

Keyed hashing

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                                                 Version 1.0                                                                                          Page 18 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

SHA2-512
A2811

Generation

Import/
Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation

Use & Related
Keys

Shared Secret
(CSP)

112/128/192/256
bits

KAS-ECC-SSC
A2811

Internally
Generated

N/A

SP800-56Arev3

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

Key Agreement

112, 128, 152 bits  RSA SigGen

A2811

Internally
Generated

RSA
Signature
Generation Key
(CSP)

RSA
Signature
Verification
Key
(PSP)

TLS Master
Secret
(CSP)

80, 112, 128, 152
bits

RSA SigVer
A2811

Internally
Generated

384 bits

TLS KDF
A2811

Internally
Derived via key
derivation
function
defined in
SP800-135rev1
KDF (TLS)

Input via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry);
Output via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)
Input via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry);
Output via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)
N/A

N/A

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

RSA signature
generation

N/A

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

RSA signature
verification

N/A

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

TLS key derivation

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                                                 Version 1.0                                                                                          Page 19 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import/
Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation

Use & Related
Keys

TLS Pre-Master
Secret
(CSP)

112-256 bits

TLS KDF
A2811

External

DRBG Seed
(CSP)

384 bits

CTR_DRBG
A2811

Internally
Generated

Input via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)
N/A

N/A

N/A

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

TLS key derivation

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

DRBG Seeding
material

CTR_DRBG V
(CSP)

128 bits

CTR_DRBG
A2811

Internally
Generated

N/A

N/A

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

DRBG internal
state

CTR_DRBG
Key
(CSP)
CTR_DRBG
Entropy Input
(CSP)

DRBG output

256 bits

CTR_DRBG
A2811

Internally
Generated

N/A

N/A

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

DRBG internal
state

384 bits used as
seed, quality of
entropy at least
112 bits
2048 bits

CTR_DRBG
A2811

External

CTR_DRBG
A2811

Internally
Generated

Input via API
in plaintext
(Electronic
Entry)
N/A

N/A

N/A

Plaintext
in RAM

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-
cycle
host

Power-
cycle
host

DRBG entropy

Random bits
provided for the
calling application

Table 11 – SSP

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                                                 Version 1.0                                                                                          Page 20 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Entropy sources

Passive Entropy

Minimum number of bits of
entropy
112 bits and above

Details

Use of a [SP800-90B] compliant entropy source
with at least 256 bits of security strength.

Entropy is supplied to the Module via callback
functions. The callback functions shall return an
error if the minimum entropy strength cannot be
met.

The caveat “No assurance of the minimum
strength of generated SSPs (e.g., keys)” is
applicable

Table 12 - Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification

10.  Self-Tests

ISO/IEC 19790 requires the module to perform self-tests to ensure the integrity of the module and
the  correctness  of the  cryptographic  functionality.  Some  functions  also  require  conditional  tests
during normal operation of the module. The self-tests can be requested on demand by power cycling
the host platform. The module has a single error state, which is called the error state. This state is
entered upon failure of a self-test. The module indicates this error state by providing the output
status  “***  KAT  failed”  where  ***  is the  algorithm name  (example:  ECDSA-sign  KAT  failed). The
module can be recovered by terminating execution of the host program and reclamation by the host
operating system. The supported tests are listed and described in this section.

10.1  Pre-Operational Self-Tests
Pre-operational self-tests are run upon the initialization of the module and further reboots of the host
platform. The CAST (Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Test) for HMAC-SHA2-256 is performed before the
integrity test. Self-tests do not require operator intervention to run. If any of the tests fail, the module
will not initialize and enter an error state where no services can be accessed.

The module implements the following pre-operational self-tests:

•  Software Integrity Test (HMAC-SHA2-256)

10.2  Conditional Self-Tests
Conditional  Cryptographic  Algorithm  Self-Tests  (CAST)  are  run  prior  to  the  first  use  of  the
cryptographic algorithm. CASTs do not require operator intervention to run. If any of the tests fail,
the module will enter an error state and no services can be accessed.

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                      Version 1.0                                                           Page 21 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

The module implements the following CASTs:

•  ECDSA Signature Generation KAT (P-256)
•  ECSDA Signature Verification KAT (P-256)
•  RSA Signature Generation KAT (2048 bits, PKCSv1.5)
•  RSA Signature Verification KAT (2048 bits, PKCSv1.5)
•  SP800-56Arev3 KAS-ECC KAT (P-256)
•  AES CBC Encryption KAT (128 bits)
•  AES CBC Decryption KAT (128 bits)
•  AES-GCM Encryption KAT (128 bits)
•  AES-GCM Decryption KAT (128 bits)
•  CAST, performed on DRBG, per SP800-90Arev1 Section 11.3 (Instantiate, Generate, Reseed)
•  TLS v1.2 KDF KAT
•  SHA-1 KAT
•  SHA2-256 KAT
•  SHA2-512 KAT
•  HMAC-SHA2-256 KAT

Conditional self-tests are run during the module’s operation.  If any of these tests fail, the module will
enter an error state, where no services can be accessed by the operators. The module can be re-
initialized to clear the error and resume approved mode of operation.

The module implements the following conditional pairwise consistency tests. The below PCTs are
executed whenever a new key pair is generated:

•  ECDSA Pairwise Consistency Test
•  EC DH Pairwise Consistency Test
•  RSA Pairwise Consistency Test

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                      Version 1.0                                                           Page 22 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

11.  Life-Cycle Assurance

The cryptographic module is initialized by loading the module before any cryptographic functionality is
available. In User Space, the operating system is responsible for the initialization process and loading of
the library. There are no maintenance requirements applicable.

General guidance about the module can be found at https://boringssl.googlesource.com/boringssl. This
includes information about the APIs, building and specific information related to FIPS can be found at
https://boringssl.googlesource.com/boringssl.git/+/refs/heads/fips-
20220613/crypto/fipsmodule/FIPS.md (note this still mentions 140-2, but the information there is the
same).

11.1  Installation Instructions
The module is open source. A Linux workstation with the following tools is required to build and compile
the module:
Linux

Clang compiler version 14.0.0 (http://releases.llvm.org/download.html)
Go programming language version 1.18.1 (https://golang.org/dl/)
Ninja build system version 1.10.2 (https://github.com/ninja-
build/ninja/releases)
Cmake version 3.22.1 (https://cmake.org/download/)

11.1.1 Building for Linux
Once the above tools have been obtained, issue the following command to create a Cmake toolchain
file to specify the use of Clang:

printf "set(CMAKE_C_COMPILER \"clang\")\nset(CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER \"clang++\")\n" > ${HOME}/toolchain

The FIPS 140-3 validated release of the module can be obtained by downloading the tarball containing
the source code at the following location:

https://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/chromium-boringssl-fips/boringssl-
0c6f40132b828e92ba365c6b7680e32820c63fa7.tar.xz or by issuing the following command:

wget https://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/chromium-boringssl-fips/boringssl-
0c6f40132b828e92ba365c6b7680e32820c63fa7.tar.xz

The set of files specified in the archive constitutes the complete set of source files of the validated
module. There shall be no additions, deletions, or alterations of this set as used during module build.

The downloaded tarball file can be verified using the below SHA2-256 digest value:

62f733289f2d677c2723f556aa58034c438f3a7bbca6c12b156538a88e38da8a

By issuing the following command:

sha256sum boringssl-0c6f40132b828e92ba365c6b7680e32820c63fa7.tar.xz

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                      Version 1.0                                                           Page 23 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

The tarball can be extracted using the following command:

tar xJ < boringssl-0c6f40132b828e92ba365c6b7680e32820c63fa7.tar.xz

After the tarball has been extracted, the following commands will compile the module:

cd boringssl
mkdir build && cd build && cmake -GNinja -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=${HOME}/toolchain -DFIPS=1 -
DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
ninja && ninja run_tests

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                           Version 1.0                                                      Page 24 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

11.1.2 Retrieving Module Name and Version

The following methods will provide the module name and versions:

•  FIPS_module_name() – BoringCrypto

•  FIPS_version() – 2022061300

12.  Mitigation of Other Attacks

The module is not designed to mitigate attacks which are outside of the scope of FIPS 140-3.

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                           Version 1.0                                                      Page 25 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

References and Standards

The following Standards are referenced in this Security Policy:

Abbreviation

FIPS 140-3
FIPS 180-4
FIPS 186-4
FIPS 197
FIPS 198-1

IG

SP 800-38A

SP 800-38C

SP 800-38D

SP 800-38F

SP 800-52

SP 800-56A

SP 800-90A

SP 800-131A
SP 800-133
SP 800-135

Full Specification Name
Security Requirements for Cryptographic modules
Secure Hash Standard (SHS)
Digital Signature Standard (DSS)
Advanced Encryption Standard
The Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code (HMAC)
Implementation Guidance for FIPS PUB 140-3 and the Cryptographic
Module Validation Program
Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Three Variants of
Ciphertext Stealing for CBC Mode
Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: the CCM Mode for
Authentication and Confidentiality
Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Galois/Counter
Mode (GCM) and GMAC
Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Methods for Key
Wrapping
Guidelines for the Selection, Configuration, and Use of Transport Layer
Security (TLS) Implementations
Recommendation for Pair-Wise Key Establishment Schemes Using Discrete
Logarithm Cryptography
Recommendation for Random Number Generation Using Deterministic
Random Bit Generators
Transitioning the Use of Cryptographic Algorithms and Key Lengths
Recommendation for Cryptographic Key Generation
Recommendation for Existing Application-Specific Key Derivation Functions

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                           Version 1.0                                                      Page 26 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Acronyms

Acronym

AES
API
CAVP
CBC
CCCS
CFB
CKG
CMVP
CO
CRNGT
CSP
CTR
DES
DH
DRBG
DSS
EC
ECB
ECC
EC DH
ECDSA
FIPS
GCM
GMAC
GPC
HMAC
IG
IV
KAS
KAT
KDF
KW
KWP
LLC
MAC
MD4
MD5
N/A
NIST

Definition

Advanced Encryption Standard
Application Programming Interface
Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program
Cipher-Block Chaining
Canadian Centre for Cyber Security
Cipher Feedback
Cooperative Key Generation
Crypto Module Validation Program
Cryptographic Officer
Continuous Random Number Generator Test
Critical Security Parameter
Counter-mode
Data Encryption Standard
Diffie-Hellman
Deterministic Random Bit Generator
Digital Signature Standard
Elliptic Curve
Electronic Code Book
Elliptic Curve Cryptography
Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman
Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Authority
Federal Information Processing Standards
Galois/Counter Mode
Galois Message Authentication Code
General Purpose Computer
Key-Hashed Message Authentication Code
Implementation Guidance
Initialization Vector
Key Agreement Scheme
Known Answer Test
Key Derivation Function
Key Wrap
Key Wrap with Padding
Limited Liability Company
Message Authentication Code
Message Digest algorithm MD4
Message Digest algorithm MD5
Not-Applicable
National Institute of Standards and Technology

NVLAP

National Voluntary Lab Accreditation Program

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                           Version 1.0                                                      Page 27 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

OFB
PAA
RAM
RFC
RSA
SHA
SHS
SP
SSL
TLS
Triple-DES

Output Feedback
Processor Algorithm Accelerator
Random Access Memory
Request For Comment
Rivest Shamir Adleman
Secure Hash Algorithm
Secure Hash Standard
Special Publication
Secure Socket Layer
Transport Layer Security
Triple Data Encryption Standard

Tetrate.io, Inc 2024                                                           Version 1.0                                                      Page 28 of 28
Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

