Samsung TCG Opal SSC
Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Document Version: 1.2

Last update: 2025-01-28

Prepared for:
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
1-1, Samsungjeonja-ro
Hwaseong-si, Gyeonggi-do
Korea, 18448
www.samsung.com

Prepared by:
atsec information security corporation
4516 Seton Center Pkwy Suite 250
Austin, TX 78759
www.atsec.com

Ó 2025  Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Table of Contents

3.1

1.1
1.2

4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5

1.  GENERAL .................................................................................................... 5
OVERVIEW ................................................................................................................... 5
SECURITY LEVELS .......................................................................................................... 5
2.  CRYPTOGRAPHIC MODULE SPECIFICATION .................................................... 6
DESCRIPTION ................................................................................................................ 6
2.1
TESTED AND VENDOR AFFIRMED MODULE VERSION AND IDENTIFICATION ................................... 7
2.2
2.3
EXCLUDED COMPONENTS ................................................................................................ 7
2.4  MODES OF OPERATION .................................................................................................... 7
ALGORITHMS ................................................................................................................ 8
2.5
SECURITY FUNCTION IMPLEMENTATIONS ............................................................................ 10
2.6
ALGORITHM SPECIFIC INFORMATION ................................................................................. 10
2.7
2.8
RNG AND ENTROPY ..................................................................................................... 10
KEY GENERATION ......................................................................................................... 10
2.9
2.10  KEY ESTABLISHMENT .................................................................................................... 10
INDUSTRY PROTOCOLS .................................................................................................. 11
2.11
3.  CRYPTOGRAPHIC MODULE INTERFACES ....................................................... 12
PORTS AND INTERFACES ................................................................................................ 12
4.  ROLES, SERVICES, AND AUTHENTICATION ................................................... 13
AUTHENTICATION METHODS ........................................................................................... 13
ROLES ....................................................................................................................... 13
APPROVED SERVICES .................................................................................................... 14
NON-APPROVED SERVICES ............................................................................................. 18
EXTERNAL SOFTWARE AND FIRMWARE LOADED .................................................................. 18
5.  SOFTWARE/FIRMWARE SECURITY ............................................................... 19
INTEGRITY TECHNIQUES ................................................................................................ 19
INITIATE ON DEMAND .................................................................................................... 19
6.  OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT .................................................................... 20
OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT TYPE AND REQUIREMENTS ...................................................... 20
7.  PHYSICAL SECURITY .................................................................................. 21
7.1  MECHANISMS AND ACTIONS REQUIRED ............................................................................. 21
8.  NON-INVASIVE SECURITY ........................................................................... 22
9.  SENSITIVE SECURITY PARAMETER MANAGEMENT ........................................ 23
STORAGE AREAS ......................................................................................................... 23
SSP INPUT-OUTPUT METHODS ....................................................................................... 23
SSP ZEROISATION METHODS ......................................................................................... 23
SSPS ........................................................................................................................ 23
10.  SELF-TESTS ............................................................................................... 27
10.1  PRE-OPERATIONAL SELF-TESTS ....................................................................................... 27
10.2  CONDITIONAL SELF-TESTS ............................................................................................. 27
10.3  PERIODIC SELF-TESTS ................................................................................................... 28
10.4  ERROR STATES ............................................................................................................ 28

9.1
9.2
9.3
9.4

5.1
5.2

6.1

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

2 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

11.  LIFE-CYCLE ASSURANCE ............................................................................. 29
11.1
INSTALLATION, INITIALIZATION AND STARTUP PROCEDURES ................................................... 29
11.2  ADMINISTRATOR GUIDANCE ............................................................................................ 29
11.3  NON-ADMINISTRATOR GUIDANCE .................................................................................... 29
12.  MITIGATION OF OTHER ATTACKS ................................................................ 30
13.  ABBREVIATIONS ........................................................................................ 31

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

3 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

TABLE 1: SECURITY LEVELS ............................................................................................................ 5
TABLE 2: HARDWARE OPERATING ENVIRONMENTS ............................................................................... 7
TABLE 3: MODES LIST AND DESCRIPTION ........................................................................................... 7
TABLE 4: APPROVED ALGORITHMS ................................................................................................... 8
TABLE 5: NON-APPROVED, NOT ALLOWED ALGORITHMS ....................................................................... 9
TABLE 6: ENTROPY ..................................................................................................................... 10
TABLE 7: KEY GENERATION ........................................................................................................... 10
TABLE 8: KEY ESTABLISHMENT ...................................................................................................... 11
TABLE 9: PORTS AND INTERFACES .................................................................................................. 12
TABLE 10: AUTHENTICATION METHODS ........................................................................................... 13
TABLE 11: ROLES ....................................................................................................................... 13
TABLE 12: APPROVED SERVICES .................................................................................................... 18
TABLE 13: NON-APPROVED SERVICES ............................................................................................. 18
TABLE 14: MECHANISMS AND ACTIONS REQUIRED ............................................................................. 21
TABLE 15: STORAGE AREAS ......................................................................................................... 23
TABLE 16: SSP INPUT-OUTPUT ..................................................................................................... 23
TABLE 17: SSP ZEROISATION METHODS ......................................................................................... 23
TABLE 18: SSP INFORMATION FIRST ............................................................................................... 25
TABLE 19: SSP INFORMATION SECOND ........................................................................................... 26
TABLE 20: PRE-OPERATIONAL SELF-TESTS ....................................................................................... 27
TABLE 21: CONDITIONAL SELF-TESTS ............................................................................................. 28
TABLE 22: ERROR STATES ............................................................................................................ 28

FIGURE 1: BLOCK DIAGRAM ............................................................................................................ 6
FIGURE 2 TESTED CONFIGURATION. .................................................................................................. 7

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

4 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

1. General

1.1  Overview

This document is the non-proprietary FIPS 140-3 Security Policy of the Samsung TCG Opal SSC
Cryptographic Sub-Chip cryptographic module (hereafter referred to as “the module”). This Security
Policy contains the security rules under which the module must operate and describes how this
module meets the requirements as specified in FIPS PUB 140-3 (Federal Information Processing
Standards Publication 140-3) for an overall Security Level 2 module. This Non-Proprietary Security
Policy may be reproduced and distributed, but only whole, intact, and must include this notice.
Other documentation is proprietary to their authors.
Table 1 describes the individual security areas of FIPS 140-3, as well as the security levels of the
module with respect to each of those individual areas.

1.2  Security Levels

ISO/IEC 24759 Section 6
[Subsection Num.
Below]

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security
Level

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

General

Cryptographic Module Specification

Cryptographic Module Interfaces

Roles, Services, and Authentication

Software/Firmware Security

Operational Environment

Physical Security

Non-invasive Security

Sensitive Security Parameter
Management

Self-tests

Life-cycle Assurance

Mitigation of Other Attacks

Overall

Table 1: Security Levels

2

2

2

2

2

N/A

2

N/A

2

2

2

N/A

2

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

5 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

2. Cryptographic Module Speciﬁcation

2.1  Description

Purpose and Use: The Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip (referred to as “the
module” in the rest of this document) is a hardware cryptographic module which provides FIPS 140-
3 certiﬁed security functionality to Samsung’s TCG Opal SEDs.

Module Type: Hardware

Module Embodiment: Single Chip

Module Characteristics: The sub-chip hardware is contained within the Samsung S4LV006A01
SSD controller found within a Samsung TCG Opal SEDs.

Cryptographic Boundary: The cryptographic boundary of the module consists of following
components:

-  S-Core,
-  A dedicated OTP on the SoC for the S-Core
-  A set of fuses on the SoC which are dedicated to the S-Core
-  Sub-Chip’s main ﬁrmware and bootloader.

Figure 1: Block Diagram

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

6 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

2.2  Tested and Vendor A ﬃ rmed Module Version and Identiﬁcation

Figure 2 Tested Conﬁguration.

Tested Module Identiﬁcation – Hardware:
Hardware Version(s): S01

Software Version(s): The module does not contain a software component.

Firmware Version(s): SS0100

Model and/or Part
Number

Hardware
Version

Firmware
Version

Processor

S4LV006A01

S01

SS0100

ARM SC000

Table 2: Hardware Operating Environments

Note: S4LV006A01 refers to the SoC on which the sub-chip cryptographic module runs on.

2.3  Excluded Components

The vendor does not claim any excluded components within the module’s boundary.

2.4  Modes of Operation

Modes List and Description:

Name

Description

Type

Status Indicator

Approved
Mode

Automatically entered whenever
an approved service is requested

FIPS

Equivalent to the indicator of
the requested service

Non-approved
Mode

Automatically entered whenever
a non-approved service is
requested

nonFIPS

Equivalent to the indicator of
the requested service

Table 3: Modes List and Description

Mode change instructions and status indicators:

After passing all pre-operational self-tests and cryptographic algorithm self-tests executed on start-
up, the module automatically transitions to the approved mode.

The module automatically switches between the approved and non-approved modes depending on
the services requested by the operator. The status indicator of the mode of operation is equivalent
to the indicator of the service that was requested. For each service the module provides a response
message that includes the service indicator for the requested service. Output “1” suggests that the
service is approved and the output “0” suggests that the service is non-approved.

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

7 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

2.5  Algorithms

Approved Algorithms:

Cert1  Algorithm and Standard

Mode/Method

Key Size/
Strength

Use/Function

A4252  AES [FIPS 197, SP 800-38A]  ECB

256 bits / 256 bits  Encryption

A4252  AES [FIPS 197, SP 800-38D]  GCM (internal IV)

256 bits / 256 bits  Authenticated

Section 8.2.2 of SP 800-
38D

Encryption/Decryption

A4252  ECDSA key generation
[FIPS 186-4]

Appendix B.4.2 Testing
Candidates

P-384 / 192 bits

key generation

A4252  ECDSA signature

Using SHA2-384

P-384 / 192 bits

signature verification

verification [FIPS 186-4]

A4252  HMAC [FIPS 198-1]

SHA2-256

112-512 bits / 112-
256 bits

Message Authentication
Code

A4252  KAS-ECC-SSC

staticUnified

P-384 / 192 bits

[SP 800-56Arev3]

Shared secret
computation

A4252  KDA [SP 800-56Crev2]

One step no counter

256 bits / 256 bits  Key derivation

A4252  KDF [SP 800-108]

A4252  SHS [FIPS 180-4]

Counter using HMAC-
SHA2-256

SHA2-256,
SHA2-384

256 bits

Key derivation

N/A

Hashing

A4135  AES [FIPS 197, SP 800-38A]  ECB

256 bits / 256 bits  Encryption

A4135  CTR_DRBG [SP 800-90A]

AES-256 with derivation
function

256 bits / 256 bits  Random number

generation

Table 4: Approved Algorithms

Vendor Aﬃrmed Algorithms:

The module implements Cryptographic Key Generation (CKG), as a vendor aﬃrmed algorithm
compliant to SP 800-133r2, Section 4 and Section 5.2. See section 2.9 for details.

Non-approved, Allowed Algorithms:

The module does not implement any non-approved algorithms that could be used in an approved
mode of operation.

Non-Approved, Allowed Algorithms with No Security Claimed:

The module does not implement any non-approved algorithms that could be used in an approved
mode of operation.

Non-Approved, Not-Allowed Algorithms:

Name

Use and Function

AES-XTS

Used for Decrypt Firmware to decrypt FW provided by H-Core

RSA Encrypt

Used for Get Dump Key to encrypt the AES-XTS dump key

Used for Verify Decrypt Firmware together with ECDSA signature
verification to decrypt and verify signature of FW provided by H-Core

1 The CAVP certs also list ECB decryption and ECDSA signature generation algorithm which is not used by the module.

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

8 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

ECDSA verification with AES XTS
decryption

Used for Verify Decrypt Firmware together with AES-XTS decryption
to verify a signature of and encrypted FW provided by H-Core

Table 5: Non-Approved, Not Allowed Algorithms

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

9 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

2.6  Security Function Implementations

Name

Type

Description

Properties

Algorithms/CAVP Cert

ECDH Key
agreement

KAS

AES GCM

KTS

SP 800-56Arev3.
KAS-ECC per IG
D.F Scenario 2
path (2)

SP 800-38D and
SP 800-38F. KTS
(key wrapping
and
unwrapping) per
IG D.G

P-384 curve providing 192 bits of
security strength

KAS-ECC-SSC / A4252
KDA / A4252

256-bit key providing 256 bits of
security strength

AES GCM / A4252

Table 5A: Security Function Implementation

2.7  Algorithm Speciﬁc Information

The ECDSA algorithm as implemented by the module conforms to FIPS 186-4, which has been
superseded by FIPS 186-5 on February 3, 2024. For the current module context, FIPS 186-4 can still
be used in the approved mode. See IG C.K for details.

2.8  RNG and Entropy

Entropy Information:

Name

Type

Operational
Environment

Sample Size

Entropy Per Sample

Conditioning
Component

Samsung TRNG
(Cert. E81)

Physical  See Table 2

1 Bit

0.5 Bits

None

Table 6: Entropy

RNG Information:

The module implements SP 800-90ARev1 CTR_DRBG that with AES-256 as the block cipher and has
a derivation function. The CTR_DRBG is provided with a 256-bit nonce and 512-bits of entropy input
from the entropy source, which provides 256-bit of entropy.

2.9  Key Generation

Name

Type

Properties

ECDSA key pair
generation

Symmetric key
generation

CKG

CKG

EC Curve: P-384; Security strength: 192 bits
Method: FIPS 186-4 Appendix B.4.2 Testing Candidates
Compliant to SP 800-133r2, Section 5.2

Symmetric key generated using SP 800-90ARev1 DRBG
Compliant to SP 800-133r2, Section 4

Table 7: Key Generation

2.10 Key Establishment

Name

Type

Properties

ECDH Key
agreement

KAS-ECC-SSC
with SP 800-
56Crev2

Curves: P-384; Security strength: 192 bits
KDF: One Step KDF with no counter
Compliant with SP 800-56Ar3 and IG D.F Scenario 2 (2)

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

10 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

AES Key Transport

GCM

AES GCM using 256 bit Key
Compliant with IG D.G and SP 800-38F

Table 8: Key Establishment

2.11 Industry Protocols

The module does not implement any industry protocols.

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

11 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

3. Cryptographic Module Interfaces

3.1  Ports and Interfaces

Physical Port

Logical Interface

Data That Passes

Mailbox/DMA

Data Input

Input Parameters

DMA

Mailbox

Mailbox

Data Output

Output parameters

Control Input

Command Input

Status Output

Status information

Power Port

Power Input

N/A

Table 9: Ports and Interfaces

This module does not have a Control Output interface.

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

12 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

4. Roles, Services, and Authentication

4.1  Authentication Methods

Method
Name

Key-
Based
KDF

Description

Operator keys that are necessary to access
authenticated commands, are access controlled
using 256-bit Credential Protection Key (CPK)
which is derived from SP 800-108 KDF using
Authority ID, Password and KDK_CPK i.e. key
derivation key for CPK. Only the operator with
valid Authority ID and Password (minimum of 8
bytes) can lead to derivation of valid CPK which
will allow the operator to access the
authenticated commands. The module does not
support concurrent operators and it does not
maintain any authentication results across
power cycle.

Security
Mechanism

Strength Per
Attempt

Strength
Per Minute

The module
waits for
750ms after a
failed attempt.

Probability of
success: 1/264

Probability of
success:
80/264

Table 10: Authentication Methods

4.2  Roles

Name

Type

Authentication Methods

SysID

AdminSP.SID

AdminSP.Admin1

LockingSP.Admin1~4

CO

CO

CO

CO

LockingSP.User1~9

User

Key-Based KDF

Key-Based KDF

Key-Based KDF

Key-Based KDF

Key-Based KDF

Table 11: Roles

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

13 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Security
Functions

Role

SSP Access

None

N/A

None

4.3  Approved Services

Name

Descriptio
n

Indicator

Inputs

Outputs

Show Status  Provide the

1

None

module
versioning
information
and current
status of the
module

Module
versioning
information

Create
Namespace

Create
Namespace

1

None

Success/
Failure

Delete
Namespace

Delete
Namespace

1

Namespace
Selection

Success/
Failure

SysID

SysID

AES-GCM,
ECDH Key
Agreement,
CTR_DRBG,
SHA,
HMAC

AES-GCM,
CTR_DRBG,
HMAC

Format NVM  Cryptograph
ically erase
a specific
Namespace'
s MEK

Permanent
Write
Protection

Enable
NVMe write
protection

Sanitize

Crypto
Erase

Activate

Erase all
MEKs and
generate
new MEK to
support
NVMe
Sanitize

Erase all
MEKs and
generate
new MEK to
support
NVMe
CryptoErase

Make
AdminSP to
transition to
the
Manufacture
d2 state

1

None

Success/
Failure

SysID

AES-GCM,
CTR_DRBG,
HMAC

1

1

None

Success/
Failure

AES-GCM,
HMAC

SysID

None

Success/
Failure

AES-GCM,
CTR_DRBG,
HMAC

SysID

1

None

Success/
Failure

AES-GCM,
CTR_DRBG,
 HMAC

SysID

1

PIN

Success/
Failure

AdminSP.SI
D

AES-GCM,
CTR_DRBG,
HMAC,
ECDH Key
Agreement,
KBKDF,
SHA

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

14 of 32

EWGZ: [CK,
PK, SK];
EWZ: [KEK,
KPK];
E: [SMK,
KMK, REK]

EWGZ:
[MEK];
EWZ: [KEK,
KPK];
E: [SMK,
KMK, REK]

EWGZ:
[MEK];
EWZ: [KEK,
KPK];
E: [SMK,
KMK, REK]

EWZ: [KPK,
KEK];
E: [SMK,
KMK, REK]

EWGZ:
[MEK];
EWZ: [KEK,
KPK];
E: [SMK,
KMK, REK]

EWGZ:
[MEK];
EWZ: [KEK,
KPK];
E: [SMK,
KMK, REK]

EWGZ:
[KPK, MEK,
CPK,
KDK_CPK,
KDK_KPK];
EWZ: [PIN];
WGZ: [SK,
PK];
E: [REK,
SMK, KMK]

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Indicator

Inputs

Outputs

1

PIN

Success/
Failure

Security
Functions

AES-GCM,
CTR_DRBG,
HMAC,
ECDH Key
Agreement,
KBKDF, SHA

AdminSP.SI
D

AdminSP.Ad
min1

Role

SSP Access

EWGZ:
[KPK, MEK,
CPK,
KDK_CPK,
KDK_KPK];
EWZ: [PIN];
WGZ: [SK,
PK];
E: [REK,
SMK, KMK]

EWGZ:
[MEK, CK,
PK, SK];
EGZ: [KEK,
KPK];
E: [REK,
SMK, KMK]

EWGZ:
[MEK, CK,
PK, SK];
EGZ: [KEK,
KPK];
E: [REK,
SMK, KMK]

EWGZ:
[MEK, CPK,
KDK_CPK,
KDK_CPK,
PK, SK];
EWZ: [KPK];
EZ: [PIN];
E: [REK,
SMK, KMK]

EWGZ:
[MEK];
EWZ: [KEK,
KPK];
E: [REK,
SMK, KMK]

Success/
Failure

Target
Namespace,
Target
Locking
Object

AES-GCM,
ECDH Key
Agreement,
CTR_DRBG,
SHA, HMAC

LockingSP.A
dmin1~4

LockingSP.U
ser1~9

Success/
Failure

Target
Namespace,
Target
Locking
Object

AES-GCM,
ECDH Key
Agreement,
CTR_DRBG,
SHA, HMAC

LockingSP.A
dmin1~4

LockingSP.U
ser1~9

Target
Namespace

Success/
Failure

AES-GCM,
CTR_DRBG,
HMAC,
ECDH Key
Agreement,
KBKDF, SHA

LockingSP.A
dmin1~4

LockingSP.U
ser1~9

Target
Namespace

Success/
Failure

AES-GCM,
CTR_DRBG,
HMAC

LockingSP.A
dmin1~4

LockingSP.U
ser1~9

Name

Reactivate

Assign

Deassign

Erase

Genkey

Grant

Random

Descriptio
n

Support TCG
SUM
method that
change to
"Single User
Mode" from
TCG Opal
feature set
spec.

Support TCG
CNL method
to couple
LockingObje
ct from
NSGlobal
Range

Support TCG
CNL method
to decouple
LockingObje
ct from
NSGlobal
Range

Support TCG
SUM
method to
crypto
erase.
EraseGlobal
crypto erase
MEK which
assign to
Global
Range

Support TCG
method to
crypto
erase.
GenkeyNon
Global
crypto erase
MEK which
assign to
Global
Range

Support TCG
method that
grants a
User’s
authority to
another
authority

Provides
random
number

1

1

1

1

1

Target
Authority

Success/
Failure

AES-GCM,
ECDH Key
Agreement,
CTR_DRBG,
SHA, HMAC

LockingSP.A
dmin1~4

LockingSP.U
ser1~9

EWGZ: [CK,
PK, SK];
EWZ: [KEK,
KPK];
E: [REK,
SMK, KMK]

1

None

DRBG
Output

CTR_DRBG  N/A

DRBG
Output

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

15 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Name

Descriptio
n

Indicator

Inputs

Outputs

Security
Functions

Role

SSP Access

Revert

RevertWithP
SID

RevertSP

1

PIN

Success/
Failure

AES-GCM,
CTR_DRBG,
HMAC,
KBKDF, SHA

AdminSP.SI
D

AdminSP.Ad
min1

1

PIN

Success/
Failure

SysID

AES-GCM,
CTR_DRBG,
HMAC,
KBKDF, SHA

from the
module

Support TCG
method to
make a TCG
state to
Manufacture
d2
inactivate
state with
password

Support TCG
method to
make a TCG
state to
Manufacture
d2
inactivate
state with
PSID

PIN,
Target SP

Success/Fail
ure

AES-GCM,
CTR_DRBG,
KBKDF, SHA

LockingSP.A
dmin1~4

1

Clear state
of TCG
Service
Provider(SP)
i.e. it causes
the SP to
revert to its
factory2
state.

SetC_PIN

Set PIN

1

PIN,
New PIN

Success/
Failure

All roles

CTR_DRBG,
AES-GCM,
ECDH Key
Agreement,
KBKDF,
SHA, HMAC

SetRange

Set Range
for using
TCG

Authenticat
e3*

Load the
KPK for
authority
and decrypt

1

1

Target
Range

Success/
Failure

AES-GCM,
HMAC

LockingSP.A
dmin1~4

Authority
Index,
PIN

Success/
Failure

CTR_DRBG,
AES-GCM,
ECDH Key
Agreement,

LockingSP.U
ser1~9

All roles

EWGZ:
[KEK, KPK,
MEK, CPK,
KDK_CPK,
KDK_KPK];
WGZ: [SK,
PK];
EZ: [PIN];
E: [REK,
SMK, KMK]

EWGZ:
[KEK, KPK,
MEK, CPK,
KDK_CPK,
KDK_KPK];
WGZ: [SK,
PK];
EZ: [PIN];
E: [REK,
SMK, KMK]

EWGZ:
[KPK, MEK,
CPK,
KDK_CPK,
KDK_KPK];
WGZ: [SK,
PK];
EWZ: [PIN,
KEK];
E: [REK,
SMK, KMK]

EWGZ:
[KPK, MEK,
CPK,
KDK_CPK,
KDK_KPK];
WGZ: [SK,
PK];
EWZ: [PIN,
KEK];
E: [REK,
SMK, KMK]

EWZ: [KPK,
KEK, MEK];
E: [REK,
SMK, KMK]

EWGZ:
[KPK, MEK,
CPK,
KDK_CPK,

2 Manufactured or Factory state refers to TCG Opal SSC’s policy state, not a FIPS 140-3 module state.
3* “authenticate” and “deauthenticate” services are not functions used to comply with FIPS authentication
requirements but instead used as part of the TCG Opal SSC speciﬁcation’s commands.

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

16 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Indicator

Inputs

Outputs

Security
Functions

KBKDF,
SHA, HMAC

Role

SSP Access

KDK_KPK];
WGZ: [SK,
PK];
EWZ: [PIN,
KEK];
E: [REK,
SMK, KMK]

1

None

Success/
Failure

N/A

All roles

Z: [KPK]

None

Success/
Failure

AES-GCM,
HMAC

SysID

None

None

Success/
Failure

ECDSA,
SHA-384

SysID

Success/
Failure

None

SysID

None

None

Success/
Failure

None

SysID

None

EWZ: [KPK,
KEK, MEK];
E: [REK,
SMK, KMK]

EWZ: [FW
Verification
Key]

Name

Descriptio
n

related
encryption
keys.

Deauthentic
ate3*

TperReset

Zeroise the
KPK for
authority
and zeroise
related
encryption
keys.

Reset the
lock state
information

VerifyFW

Verify
Firmware

Prevent FW
Rollback4

Revoke FW
verification
key4

Update the
Anti-
Rollback
index

Revoke the
ECDSA FW
verification
key of
Firmware
integrity by
updating
the key
index
pointer
stored in
OTP

1

1

1

1

SHA Digest  Provide to

1

Input Data  Hash

SHA-256

N/A

None

generate
the SHA
digest

Revoke REK
and
Generate
new REK

Zeroises
root key in
OTP

Revoke Root
Encryption
Key

OTP
Zeroisation

1

None

None

None

Success/
Failure

Success/
Failure

CTR_DRBG  SysID

WZ: [REK]

None

SysID

Z: [Root
Key]

4 These services are only indicated for use within the ﬁrmware update process. If any of these services are called
during operation of the module outside of a ﬁrmware update process, the module will fail to verify the ﬁrmware
during boot, resulting in halting during boot and becoming unavailable for use. Also note that use of any ﬁrmware
version other than the one speciﬁc in Table 2 is not part of validated module.

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

17 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Name

On demand
self-test

Descriptio
n

Module
reset by
setting the
SFR
SW_RST12

Indicator

Inputs

Outputs

Security
Functions

Role

SSP Access

None

None

Module
reset

None

All roles

Z: All SSPs
in volatile
memory

Table 12: Approved Services

4.4  Non-Approved Services

Name

  Description

Input

Output

Indicator

Decrypt
Firmware

Verify Decrypt
Firmware

Decrypt FW
provided by H-
Core

Verify and
Decrypt
Firmware5
provided by H-
Core

Firmware
location

Decrypted
firmware

Firmware
location

Decrypted
firmware if
verification is
successful else
error.

0

0

Algorithm
Accessed

AES-XTS in S-
Core

ECDSA, SHA-
384, AES-XTS

Role

N/A
(Unauthenticat
ed)

N/A
(Unauthenticat
ed)

Dump key with
RSA

0

CTR_DRBG,
RSA encrypt

N/A
(Unauthenticat
ed)

Get Dump Key  Module

N/A

generates AES
XTS dump key
using DRBG
and then
exports it after
encrypting
with RSA

Removes
dump key
stored in the
module

Encrypts the
dump data
provided by H-
Core using
dump key

Clear Dump
Key

Dump
Encryption

N/A

Success/
error

Dump data
location

Encrypted
dump data

0

0

None

N/A
(Unauthenticat
ed)

AES-XTS in S-
Core

N/A
(Unauthenticat
ed)

Table 13: Non-Approved Services

4.5  External Software and Firmware Loaded

The module loads its ﬁrmware component from outside of the sub-chip boundary during
module start up. The module uses ﬁrmware load test described in Section 5.1 to ensure the
ﬁrmware’s validity.

5 Note: the ﬁrmware does not pertain to the module.

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

18 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

5. Software/Firmware Security

5.1  Integrity Techniques

The module’s ﬁrmware component (i.e., main ﬁrmware and bootloader) is in executable form
and is veriﬁed with ECDSA signature veriﬁcation using P-384 ECDSA curve and SHA-384 by
the ROM code. The corresponding ﬁrmware veriﬁcation key (i.e., ECDSA public key) used for
veriﬁcation is stored in the ROM and its key index is stored in the OTP memory within the sub-
chip. During the module startup time the ﬁrmware component is loaded from outside of the
module’s sub-chip boundary. The ﬁrmware provides the “key index” of the public key stored
in the OTP. The module reads this key index and its corresponding public key, which is then
used to perform signature veriﬁcation, i.e., the ﬁrmware load test required per IG 2.3.B. Only
when  the  signature  veriﬁcation  is  successful  the  ﬁrmware  component  is  loaded,  and  the
module proceeds to boot. If the signature veriﬁcation fails, the module enters Power on Error
state. The module does not provide any data output until the ﬁrmware load test is successful.

5.2  Initiate on Demand

The integrity tests can be invoked on demand by module reset.

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

19 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

6. Operational Environment

6.1  Operational Environment Type and Requirements

The module has a non-modiﬁable operational environment; therefore, this section is not
applicable.

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

20 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

7. Physical Security
The module is hosted in a single chip that forms the physical perimeter of the module. The
SoC is enclosed within production grade components. At the time of manufacturing, the
module is embedded into its host SoC (shown in Figure 2), preventing visibility into the
module’s internal circuitry. In addition, the layer process which embeds the module into the
SoC prevents tampering of the module’s physical components without leaving tamper
evidence.

The module is intended to be deployed within a storage device which itself is made from
production grade, commercially available components. The storage device’s enclosure
surrounds the module’s SoC.

7.1  Mechanisms and Actions Required

Mechanism

Inspection Frequency

Inspection Guidance

Tamper evident coating

N/A

N/A

Table 14: Mechanisms and Actions Required

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

21 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

8. Non-Invasive Security
This module does not implement a non-invasive security technique.

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

22 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

9. Sensitive Security Parameter Management

9.1  Storage Areas

Storage Area Name

Description

Persistence Type

Registers

The module has internal registers that
may store SSPs for use by the module.

Dynamic

S-Core Dedicated OTP (OTP)

Stores Root Keys

S-Core ROM (SROM)

Stores Firmware Verification Key

S-Core RAM (SRAM)

S-Core exclusive RAM

Static

Static

Dynamic

Table 15: Storage Areas

9.2  SSP Input-Output Methods

Name

From

To

Format Type

Distribution Type

Entry Type

Mailbox  H-Core  Module

Plaintext

N/A per IG 2.3.B as transfer is only
between the sub-chip module and
the components residing on the
same SoC

Electronic

DMA

NAND

Module

Encrypted

Automated

Electronic

Table 16: SSP Input-Output

9.3  SSP Zeroisation Methods

All data output via data output interface is inhibited until completion of zeroization.

Zeroisation
Method

Module reset

Description

Rationale

Operator Initiation

Loss of volatile SSP data stores
upon power down.

Mailbox
Zeroisation

Writing zeroes over the SSP that is
used within a service.

N/A

N/A

Powering off the module

Performed automatically by the
module as part of each service
that receives an SSP as input

OTP Zeroisation  Zeroising Root key stored in OTP.

N/A

Call to OTP Zeroisation service

Table 17: SSP Zeroisation Methods

9.4  SSPs

Name

DRBG
Internal State

DRBG Seed

Descriptio
n

Size -
Strength

Type -
Catego
ry

Generated
By

Establish
ed By

Used By

N/A

CSP

CTR_DRBG  N/A

CTR_DRBG

256 bits/
256 bits

CSP

CTR_DRBG  N/A

CTR_DRBG

Internal
state of
DRBG

Derived
from
entropy
input per SP
800-
90ARev1

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

23 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Name

Descriptio
n

Size -
Strength

Type -
Catego
ry

Generated
By

Establish
ed By

Used By

Entropy Input  Output from

CSP

ENT (P)

N/A

CTR_DRBG

Password

CPK

CK

KDK_KPK

KDK_CPK

KPK

SK

PK

GRK

KEK

Entropy
source

Operator
provided
password

Credential
Protection
Key

Common
Key i.e.,
ECDH
shared
secret

Key
Derivation
Key for the
KPK

Key
Derivation
Key for the
CPK

512 bits/
256 bits

64-256-
bits / 64
bits - 256
bits

256-bit /
256-bits

CSP

P-384 /
192 bits

CSP

CSP

N/A

N/A

All authenticated
services listed in Table
12

All authenticated
services listed in Table
12

Derived
using SP
800-108
KBKDF

Encrypted
Import and
export
(AES GCM)
to NAND

N/A

Grant

SP 800-
56Arev3
Shared
secret
computation

256-bits /
256-bits

CSP

CTR_DRBG

256-bits /
256-bits

CSP

CTR_DRBG

All authenticated
services listed in Table
12

All authenticated
services listed in Table
12

Encrypted
Import and
export
(AES GCM)
to NAND

Encrypted
Import and
export
(AES GCM)
to NAND

Key
Protection
Key

256-bits /
256-bits

CSP

KBKDF

N/A

All authenticated
services listed in Table
12

ECDSA
private Key

P-384 /
192 bits

CSP

ECDSA
Public Key

P-384 /
192 bits

PSP

FIPS 186-4
EC key
generation

FIPS 186-4
EC key
generation

256-bits /
256-bits

CSP

N/A

256-bits /
256-bits

CSP

CTR_DRBG

Grant Key
(AES GCM
Key)

Key
Encryption
Key
(AES GCM
Key)

Encrypted
Import and
export
(AES GCM)
to NAND

Encrypted
Import and
export
(AES GCM)
to NAND

SP 800-
56ARev3
ECDH key
agreement

Encrypted
Import and
export
(AES GCM)
to NAND

Grant

Grant

Grant

CreateNamespace,
DeleteNamespace,
FormatNVM,
PermanentWriteProtect
ion,
Sanitze,
CryptoErase,
Assign,
Deassign,
Genkey,

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

24 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Name

Descriptio
n

Size -
Strength

Type -
Catego
ry

Generated
By

Establish
ed By

MEK

Media
Encryption
Key
(AES GCM
Key)

256-bits /
256-bits

CSP

CTR_DRBG

Encrypted
Import and
export
(AES GCM)
to NAND

Used By

Grant,
Revert,
RevertWithPSID,
RevertSP,
Authenticate

DeleteNamespace,
FormatNVM,
Sanitize,
CryptoErase,
Activate,
Reactivate,
Assign,
Deassign,
Erase,
Genkey,
Revert,
RevertWithPSID,
RevertSP,
SetRange,
Authenticate,
TperReset

REK

Root Key

SMK

KMK

Name

DRBG
Internal
State

DRBG
Seed

Entropy
Input

Root
Encryption
Key
(AES GCM
Key)

Stored in
the OTP
during
manufacturi
ng
 (key
derivation
key)

Service
metadata
Mac Key
(HMAC key)

Secret Key
metadata
Mac Key
(HMAC key)

256-bits /
256-bits

CSP

256-bits /
256-bits

CSP

N/A

Derived
from Root
key using
KBKDF

N/A

N/A, loaded
at
manufacturi
ng

All authenticated
services listed in Table
12

All authenticated
services listed in Table
12

256-bits /
256-bits

CSP

256-bits /
256-bits

CSP

Derived
from Root
key using
KBKDF

Derived
from Root
key using
KBKDF

N/A

Module Startup

N/A

All authenticated
services listed in Table
12

Table 18: SSP Information First

Input -
Output

Storage

Storge Duration  Zeroisation Type

Related SSPs

N/A

HW registers  Until Module reset  Module reset

N/A

HW registers

N/A

HW registers  Until Module reset  Module reset

DRBG seed, entropy input,
MEK, KEK, SK, KDK_CPK,
KDK_KPK

DRBG internal state,
entropy input, MEK, KEK,
SK, KDK_CPK, KDK_KPK

DRBG seed, DRBG internal
state

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

25 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Name

Input -
Output

Storage

Storge Duration  Zeroisation Type

Related SSPs

Password  Mailbox

SRAM

CPK

CK

DMA

N/A

KDK_KPK  DMA

KDK_CPK

KPK

SK

PK

GRK

KEK

MEK

REK

N/A

DMA

N/A

DMA

DMA

N/A

Root Key  N/A

SMK

KMK

DMA

DMA

SRAM

SRAM

SRAM

SRAM

SRAM

SRAM

SRAM

SRAM

SRAM

SRAM

SRAM

OTP

SRAM

SRAM

For the duration of
the service

Overwrite

CPK, KPK

Mailbox Zeroisation  KDK_CPK, Password

Overwrite

GRK

Mailbox Zeroisation  KPK, Password

CPK, Password

KDK_KPK, Password

GRK

GRK

SK, PK, CK

For the duration of
the service

Mailbox Zeroisation  MEK SK, PK, CK, GRK

KEK

Root Key, KMK, SMK

Until OTP
zeroisation

OTP zeroisation

REK

Until Module reset  Mailbox Zeroisation  REK

REK

Table 19: SSP Information Second

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

26 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

10.  Self-Tests

10.1 Pre-Operational Self-Tests

Algorithm

Implementa
tion

Test
Properties

Test Method  Test Type

Indicator

Details

ECDSA

Firmware

P-384 with
SHA2-384

Signature
Verification

Firmware
Integrity

Module is
operational

Verifies Main
FW and
Bootloader

Table 20: Pre-Operational Self-Tests

10.2 Conditional Self-Tests

Algorithm

Implementatio
n

ECDSA

Firmware

Test
Propertie
s

Test
Method

P-384 with
SHA2-384

KAT

Test
Typ
e

CAS
T

AES-GCM6

SHA2-256

SHA2-384

HMAC

AES-256

KAT

N/A

KAT

N/A

KAT

SHA2-256  KAT

CTR_DRBG

Hardware

AES-256

KAT

KBKDF

Firmware

ECDH SSC

One step KDF
(KDA)

ENT (P)

Hardware

HMAC
SHA2-256

KAT

P-384

KAT

SHA-256

KAT

SP 800-
90B
Startup
Tests

SP 800-
90B

1024
samples

Continuousl
y

CAS
T

CAS
T

CAS
T

CAS
T

CAS
T

CAS
T

CAS
T

CAS
T

RCT
&
APT

RCT
&
APT

Indic.

Details

Conditions

Module is
operationa
l

Entropy
source is
operationa
l

Before
firmware
integrity
check

Encrypt/
Decrypt

Hashing

Hashing

Message
authenticatio
n

Random
number
generation7

Key
Derivation

Shared
secret
computation

Key
Derivation

Entropy
source start-
up test

Module
Startup

Boot Up

Entropy
source

Continuousl
y

6 Even though the module implements AES ECB mode, it is not available as a standalone service and therefore does not
include any self-test. ECB encryption is only used internally by module’s AES GCM and DRBG algorithm which have their own
self-test.
7 Including instantiate, generate, and reseed function per section 11.3 of SP 800-90A DRBG.

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

27 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Algorithm

Implementatio
n

Test
Method

Test
Typ
e

Test
Propertie
s

Continuou
s Tests

Indic.

Details

Conditions

continuous
test

ECDSA

Firmware

SHA2-256  PCT

CAS
T

Key
generatio
n
successful

Per SP 800-
56ARev3
section
5.6.2.1.4 b

Key
Generation

Table 21: Conditional Self-Tests

10.3 Periodic Self-Tests

The module does not implement any periodic self-tests.

10.4 Error States

Name

Description

Conditions

Recovery Method

Indicator

Power ON
Error State

Operational
Error state

The module is not
operational. All
data output is
inhibited.

The module does
not provide any
crypto operation.
All data output is
inhibited. Only
status output is
allowed.

pre-operational test
or CAST failure

Power cycle or Internal
Reset Signal

PCT or runtime
health test failure

Power cycle or Internal
Reset Signal

the module is not
started, and no
services are
available.

FIPS_FAIL message
in Show Status
Service

Table 22: Error States

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

28 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

11.  Life-Cycle Assurance

11.1 Installation, Initialization and Startup Procedures

The vendor uses trusted delivery courier to dispatch the SoC that hosts the module. The Crypto
oﬃcer should verify the package and the received SoC to verify that there is no tamper evidence
present.

11.2 Administrator Guidance

The Crypto oﬃcer shall power up the module and call the “Show Status” service to verify the
following output is provided. This conﬁrms that the SoC is running a FIPS validated module that has
booted successfully passing the pre-operational self-tests.

- Tested Conﬁguration: S4LV006A01

- Hardware Version: S01

- Firmware Version: SS0100

11.3 Non-Administrator Guidance

The module generates GCM IV internally in compliance with scenario 2 of IG C.H. The IV length is 96
bits, and the IV value is obtained from the SP 800-90ARev1 approved DRBG implemented by the
module.

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

29 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

12.  Mitigation of Other Attacks
The module does not provide additional mitigations against other types of attacks.

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

30 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

13.  Abbreviations

AES

CAVP

CMVP

CK

CPK

CSP

CTR

Advanced Encryption Standard

Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program

Cryptographic Module Validation Program

Common Key

Credential Protection Key

Critical Security Parameter

Counter Mode

DRBG

Deterministic Random Bit Generator

DTRNG

Deterministic True Random Number Generator

ECB

ENT

FIPS

GCM

GRK

Electronic Code Book

NIST SP 800-90B Compliant Entropy Source

Federal Information Processing Standards

Galois Counter Mode

Grant Key

HMAC

Hash Message Authentication Code

KAT

KDF

Known Answer Test

Key Derivation Function

KDK_CPK  Key Derivation Key for CPK

KDK_KPK  Key Derivation Key for KPK

KMK

KPK

NVM

OTP

PK

PKE

PSP

Secret Key metadata Mac Key

Key Protection Key

Non-Volatile Memory

One Time Programmable

Public Key

Public Key Encryption

Public Security Parameter

ROM

Read Only Memory

RSA

SED

SHA

SHS

SID

Rivest, Shamir, Addleman

Self-Encrypting Device

Secure Hash Algorithm

Secure Hash Standard

Security ID

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

31 of 32

Samsung TCG Opal SSC Cryptographic Sub-Chip

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

SK

SoC

SSC

SSP

TCG

XTS

Secret key

System on Chip

Security Subsystem Class

Sensitive Security Parameter

Trusted Computing Group

XEX-based Tweaked-codebook mode with ciphertext stealing

©2025 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

32 of 32

