Broadcom, Inc.

PrismPlus Cryptographic Module

Broadcom, Inc.

Non-Proprietary FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Document Version: 1.2

Date: January 17, 2025

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 1 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

Table of Contents

1  General .............................................................................................................................. 7

2

Cryptographic Module Specification ................................................................................. 8

2.1  Cryptographic Boundary ..........................................................................................................9
2.2  Modes of Operation .............................................................................................................. 10
2.3  Security Functions ................................................................................................................. 10
2.4  Overall Security Design .......................................................................................................... 10
2.5  Rules of Operation................................................................................................................. 11

3

Cryptographic Module Interfaces .................................................................................... 12

4  Roles, Services and Authentication ................................................................................. 14

4.1  Assumption of Roles and Related Services ............................................................................. 14
4.2  Services ................................................................................................................................. 18

5

Software/Firmware Security ........................................................................................... 21

6  Operational Environment ................................................................................................ 21

7

Physical Security .............................................................................................................. 21

8  Non-Invasive Security ...................................................................................................... 21

9

Sensitive Security Parameter (SSP) Management ........................................................... 22

9.1  Sensitive Security Parameters (SSP) ....................................................................................... 23
9.2  DRBG Entropy Source ............................................................................................................ 23

10  Self-Tests ......................................................................................................................... 24

11  Life-Cycle Assurance ........................................................................................................ 28

11.1 Procedures for Secure Installation, Initialization, Startup and Operation of the Module. ....... 28
11.2 Administrator and Non-Administrator Guidance .................................................................... 28

12  Mitigation of Other Attacks ............................................................................................. 28

13  References and Definitions .............................................................................................. 29

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 2 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

List of Tables

Table 1 – Security Level of Security Requirements ................................................................................... 7
Table 2 – Cryptographic Module Tested Configuration ............................................................................ 8
Table 3 – Approved Algorithms .............................................................................................................. 10
Table 4 – Ports and Interfaces ............................................................................................................... 12
Table 5 – Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output .......................................................................... 17
Table 6 – Approved Services .................................................................................................................. 18
Table 7 – SSP Management Methods ..................................................................................................... 22
Table 8 – SSPs Management .................................................................................................................. 23
Table 9 – Entropy Source ....................................................................................................................... 23
Table 10 – Error States and Indicators ................................................................................................... 24
Table 11 – Pre-Operational Self-Tests .................................................................................................... 25
Table 12 – Conditional Self-Tests ........................................................................................................... 26
Table 13 – References ........................................................................................................................... 29

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 3 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

List of Figures

Figure 1 – Module Diagram ..................................................................................................................... 9
Figure 2 – Module Images (Bottom and Top) ........................................................................................... 9

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 4 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

Glossary Of Terms

Appliance-Host
AUTH_ELS

Connection

Connection Table

EDIF
Factory-Host

Fibre Channel

Fibre Channel Frame
Initiator

Remote Peer Information
(RPI) Table

Security Association
Database (SADB)

Service Layer Interface (SLI)

Storage Appliance
Storage Peer

Storage Server Appliance

Storage Device Appliance

Support Processor (SP)

Target

Storage Server (Initiator) or Storage Device (Target) with a PrismPlus Adaptor
Fibre  Channel  Messaging  Protocol  that  maps  IKEv2  to  the  Fibre  Channel  ELS
(Extended Link Service) Protocol.
Communication  between  a  Host  Initiator  Entity  on  a  Storage  Server  Appliance
and a Remote Target Entity on Storage Device Appliances
The  Connection  Table  (aka  Remote  Peer  Information  (RPI)  Table)  contains
Encryption  Parameters  including  Enable/Bypass  Encryption,  Algorithms  to  be
used and Traffic Selectors (types of frames to be encrypted) for a connection.
These RPI fields can be considered an extension to the SADB and are required by
the Encrypt/Decrypt HW Engines
Encrypted Data In Flight
Factory  Host  system  with  PrismPlus  Adaptor  that  runs  the  Factory  Process  to
configure the Adaptor in Approved Mode.
Fibre  Channel  (FC)  is  a  high-speed  data  transfer  protocol  providing  in-order,
lossless  delivery  of  raw  block  data.  Fibre  Channel  is  primarily  used  to  connect
computer  data  storage  to  servers  in  storage  area  networks  (FC-SAN)  in
commercial data centers.
Frames are units of transfer in Fibre Channel akin to Packets in Ethernet.
Entity (e.g., Driver) on a Storage Server Appliance that makes data requests on
behalf of Applications from networked data resources.
This connection table contains Encryption Parameters including Enable/Bypass
Encryption,  Algorithms  to  be  used  and Traffic  Selectors (types  of frames  to  be
encrypted) for a connection.
These RPI fields can be considered an extension to the SADB and are required by
the Encrypt/Decrypt HW Engines
Contains  Encryption/Decryption  Keys  and  other  parameters  required  by  the
Encrypt/Decrypt HW Engines. The SADB contains CSPs (Encrypt/Decrypt Keys and
other parameters) for EDIF
The  Service  Level  Interface  (SLI)  provides  a  standard  set  of  control  structures,
commands,  and  responses  to  accomplish  the  transfer  of  data  between  a  host
system  and  an  external  network  through  a  tightly  coupled  port.  The  SLI
documents detail the control structures.
A Storage Server Appliance or a Storage Device Appliance
The  Remote  Appliance  with  which  connection  has  been  established  for  data
transactions
A  type  appliance  on  a  network  that  accesses  networked  data  resources  for
applications
A type of appliance that provides data to, or manages data for, other network-
connected computing devices.
On chip Support Processor handling on-chip configuration and management and
Management Control Messages (MailBox Commands) from the Host.
Entity  (e.g.,  Driver)  on  a Storage Device  Appliance  that  services  data requests
received on network.

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 5 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

Acronyms and Definitions

Acronym

Definition

APT

CSP

KAT

RCT

RPI

SADB

SSP

Adaptive Proportion Test

Critical Security Parameter

Know Answer Test

Repetition Count Test

Remote Peer Information

Security Association Database

Sensitive Security Parameter

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 6 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

1  General

This  document  defines  the  Security  Policy  for  the  Broadcom  Inc.  PrismPlus  Cryptographic  Module,
hereafter denoted  the  Module.  The PrismPlus ASIC based  module is implemented on a PCIe Host Bus
Adapter  (HBA)  and  is  assumed  to  operate  within  a  Storage  Server  Appliance  or  a  Storage  Device
Appliance operating in a Fibre Channel Storage Area Network (FC-SAN) environment.

The FIPS 140-3 security levels for the module are as follows:

Table 1 – Security Level of Security Requirements

ISO/IEC 24759 section  Security Requirement

Security Level

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

Overall

General

Cryptographic Module Specification

Cryptographic Module Interfaces

Roles, Services and, Authentication

Software/Firmware Security

Operational Environment

Physical Security

Non-Invasive Security

Sensitive Security Parameter Management

Self-Tests

Life-Cycle Assurance

Mitigation of Other Attacks

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

N/A

1

1

1

N/A

1

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 7 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

2  Cryptographic Module Specification

The PrismPlus Cryptographic Module is a hardware module intended for use by US Federal agencies or
other markets that require a FIPS 140-3 validated network encryption device. The module implemented
on a PCIe Adapter is intended to be used in Fibre Channel based Storage Area Networks.

The module allows a Connection to be established between one of the multiple Host Initiator Entities
(e.g., 256 Virtual Machine Drivers running on multiple CPU cores) on a Storage Server Appliance and one
of the multiple Remote Host Target Entities (e.g., 1000s of Storage LUNs) on multiple  Storage Device
Appliances via one of the multiple Physical Ports (e.g., 4x 64GFC ports). The Connection facilitates transfer
of data between a Host Initiator Entity on a Storage Server Appliance and Host Target Entity on a Storage
Server  Appliance  using  the  FC  (Fibre  Channel)  Protocol.  The  module  allows  multiple  (1000s)  of
connections between Host Initiator Entities on a Storage Server Appliance and Host Target Entities on
Storage Device Appliances.

The module can be used to support Data-in-Flight Encryption/Decryption between Storage Appliances in
a FC-SAN environment. Encryption decisions are made on a connection basis, whereby only a subset of
the connections could be enabled for Encryption. If a connection is enabled for Encryption, only a subset
of the Frame Types (e.g., Data Frames only, not Command/Status/Control/etc. Frames) could be enabled
for Encryption. Note: Frames are units of transfer in Fibre Channel akin to Packets in Ethernet.

Please note that while the module includes an entropy source; the entropy source is not utilized in the
current design and is reserved for future use.

Table 2 – Cryptographic Module Tested Configuration

Model

Hardware

Firmware version

Distinguishing Features

PrismPlus
Cryptographic Module

G99-00139-01

14.2.338.0

PrismPlus ASIC, Flash
implemented on a PCIe Adapter

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 8 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

2.1  Cryptographic Boundary

The module is a multiple-chip embedded embodiment. The cryptographic boundary is defined as a sub-
region of the PCB depicted by the red dotted line in Figure 1, which encompasses the PrismPlus ASIC and
Flash.

FC
SAN
FABRIC

FC
Switch

Remote Peer

FC
Switch

Me mory

Me mory

Me mory

Pro cesso r

Pro cesso r

Me mory

Power
Regulator
2

SFF/SFP

SFF/SFP

QSPI

Flash

SFF/SFP

I2C

Prism+

I2C

EEPROM/
uCtrlr

SFF/SFP

Power
Regulator
1

Me mory

PCIe HOST
Storage Device Appliance, Target

Me mory

OR

Storage Server Appliance, Initiator

M emory

M emory

M emory

Local Terminal

Processor

Processor

M emory

M emory

       PCIe HOST
Storage Server Appliance, Initiator

M emory

OR

Storage Device Appliance, Target

Figure 1 – Module Diagram

Figure 2 – Module Images (Bottom and Top)

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 9 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

2.2  Modes of Operation

The module supports an Approved mode of operation and assumes the Approved mode as soon as it is
powered-on. The module does not support a non-Approved mode. Approved mode of operation requires
FW Load, FW Integrity and Pre-Operational Self Tests to pass. All services are offered only in Approved
mode of operation. If Firmware Integrity Tests or the Pre-Operational Self tests fail, the module will halt
all operations and will need to be reset, unless the module has automatically done so. The module does
not support a degraded mode of operation.

To verify that  the  module  is  in  the  Approved mode  of  operation, the operator may invoke  the  “Show
Status” service. The Approved Security Service Indicator is provided by the successful completion of each
service, as an implicit indicator for the use of an Approved service per IG 2.4.C, Example Scenario 2.

2.3  Security Functions

The module implements the approved cryptographic functions listed in Table 3 below, which were tested
on the ARM Cortex R4 processor internal to the module. The module does not support any non-Approved
algorithms or non-Approved algorithms allowed in the approved mode. There are algorithms, modes, and
keys that have been CAVP tested, but not used by the module; such unused algorithms, modes/methods,
and key lengths are shown in this table with “Tested, but not used” specified in the Use/Function column.

CAVP
Cert
#A2693

#A2695

#A2691

Algorithm and
Standard
AES [197]
(Specification for AES)

AES [197]
(Specification for AES)

RSA [186-4]
(Digital Signature Standard)
RSA Cryptographic
Standard

#A2694

SHS [180-4]
SHS (Secure Hash Standard)

Table 3 – Approved Algorithms

Mode/Method

Description / Key Size(s) /
Key Strength(s)

Use / Function

ECB [38A]

Key Sizes: 256

Supports GCM

GCM [38D]

Key Sizes:256
Tag Len: 128

Authenticated Encrypt, Authenticated
Decrypt

PKCS1_v1.5

n = 2048 SHA2-256

SigVer

SHA2-256

SHA2-256

Message Digest Generation

The module does not implement any KAS or KTS Security Function Implementations.

2.4  Overall Security Design
1.  The module provides a single operator role: Cryptographic Officer Role.
2.  An operator does not have access to any cryptographic services prior to assuming an authorized role.
3.  The module allows the operator to initiate pre-operational and conditional self-tests by power cycling

or resetting the module.

4.  Pre-operational self-tests do not require any operator action.
5.  Data output is inhibited during self-tests, FW loading, zeroization, and error states.
6.  Status information does not contain CSPs or sensitive data that if misused could lead to a compromise

of the module.

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 10 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

7.  There are no restrictions on which CSPs are zeroized by the zeroization service.
8.  The module does not support concurrent operators.
9.  The module does not support a maintenance interface or role.
10. The module does not support manual key entry.
11. The module does not have any proprietary external input/output  devices used for entry/output of

data.

12. The module does not output any plaintext CSPs.
13. The module does not output intermediate key values.
14. The module provides bypass services for connections.
15. AES  GCM  IV  uniqueness:  The  AES  GCM  implementation  meets  Option  3  of  IG  C.H  Key/IV  Pair
Uniqueness  Requirements  from  SP  800-38D.  The module uses the IV construction  in  Section 8.2.1
Deterministic Construction of SP800-38D for the 96bit IV that is used. In case the module’s power is
lost  and  then  restored,  a  new  key  for  use  with  the  AES-GCM  encryption/decryption  shall  be
established.

2.5  Rules of Operation

The module is installed on a PCIe Adaptor that shall be installed either in a storage server appliance or a
storage device appliance.

The module will power on in the Approved mode of operation.

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 11 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

3  Cryptographic Module Interfaces

The module’s ports and associated FIPS defined logical interface categories are listed in Table 4. The ports
are defined as the PCB traces crossing the perimeter of the physical cryptographic boundary. The module
inhibits all control output upon entry into the error state.

Physical Port

Logical Interface  Data that passes over port/interface

Table 4 – Ports and Interfaces

PCIe Intf.(16 lane):

SMBus Interface:

Control In;
Data In;
Data Out;

Status Out;
Control Out

Control In;
Status Out

I2C General
Purpose(x1):

Control Out;
Data In

I2C General
Purpose(x2):

Fibre Channel (4x):

N/A

Control In;
Data In;
Data Out;

Status Out;
Control Out

I2C SFP Master (x4):

Data In;
Control Out

Control In: IO Commands, Management Control Messages,
PCIE_RESET_N;
Data In: Plaintext Data, Status Information from Host;
Data Out: Plaintext Data to Host;
Status Out: Good or Error Status Response from Adapter to Host;
Control Out: I/O Commands from received from connection peers

Used for connection to BMC (Baseboard Management Controller) on
server.
Control In: MCTP Control Messages, NCSI and PLDM Server
Management commands are received. Adapter status queries and
config commands received from Server Management software;
Status Out: Response to MCTP Control Messages, NCSI and PLDM
Server Management commands. Adapter sends out status via
response to MCTP, NCSI and PLDM Status commands.

1x Connect to External uController. Always Enabled.
Control Out: Reset uController, Download uController Firmware
update from external Flash to the EEPROM;
Data In: Check current uController Firmware version, Get uController
EEPROM Slot details where uController Firmware can be installed,
Get Power Consumption details
Disabled

Control In: I/O Commands from connection peers;
Data In: Plaintext data, ciphertext data, encrypted cryptographic keys
and CSPs, authentication data from connection peer. IO Command
Status information in from connection peer;
Data Out: Plaintext data, ciphertext data, encrypted cryptographic
keys and CSPs;
Status Out: IO Command Status information out to connection peer;
Control Out: I/O Commands to connection peers

The I2C SFF/SFP interface is used to control and monitor the Fibre
Channel Link Transceivers.

Data In: SFP performance data, temperature status, SFP Revision
Number, SFP Vendor Specific Data etc. are read over the I2C
interface;
Control Out: Control Commands to control SFP operational
parameters.

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 12 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

Physical Port

Logical Interface  Data that passes over port/interface

GPIO (x73):

Data In;
Status Out;
Control In;

Control Out

GPIO pins are normally used for misc. controls and status inputs.
Control Out: SFP, Misc Control Signals;
Status Out: Status LEDs;
Control In: Config Control Signals;
Data In: SFP, Misc Status Signals

Proc. UARTs (Qty. 2):  N/A

Test and Debug IOs

JTAG Interface:

N/A

N/A

Disabled.

Disabled.

Disabled.

Power

Power;
Control Out

Power: Power in from PCIe interface via Power Regulators;
Control Out: SVS signal to Control ASIC core Voltage based on process
corner

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 13 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

4  Roles, Services and Authentication

4.1  Assumption of Roles and Related Services

The module supports a single operator role, the Cryptographic Officer (CO) Role. The services that are
available to the Cryptographic Officer are described later in the document.

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 14 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

Table 5 lists all services supported by the module in the CO Role.
The module does not support authentication; the CO role is implicitly assumed.
The module does not support a maintenance role.
The module supports a Bypass Capability.
The module does not support concurrent operators.
The module does not support a self-initiated cryptographic output capability.

Bypass
On a connection between a Host Initiator Entity on a Storage Server Appliance and Host Target Entity on
a Storage Device Appliance, encryption can be enabled or disabled. A Bypass capability is defined.
A connection could be established to start operating in a non-protected mode with Encrypted Data In
Flight (EDIF) disabled. It could then transition to operating in a protected mode with EDIF, once encryption
parameters and traffic selectors have been negotiated with the peer entity by the host.
The  following  conditions  need  to  be  met  in  the  transition  to  encrypted  mode  of  operation  for  a
connection:
a.  The  module  receives  a  command  with  encryption  parameters  and  Traffic  Selectors,  to  enable  a

connection to move to an encrypted mode of operation.

b.  The module will verify the integrity of the governing bypass information in the connection table aka
Remote  Peer  Information  (RPI)  table  through  an  approved  integrity  technique  (SHA2-256)
immediately preceding modification of the governing information and generates a new integrity value
using the Approved integrity technique immediately following the modification. A failure in this test
is considered fatal for the adapter. The adapter is internally reset by the FW triggering a restart that
includes reloading the FW and re-running all the pre-operational self-tests.

c.  The  module  performs  a  conditional  Bypass  SP-to-SP  internal  loopback  self-test  to  check  that  the
module is in a valid operational state for the connection. Check that specific types of frames targeted
for encryption for the connection are correctly encrypted and decrypted after the SADB requested in
the command for the connection is installed. A failure in this test is considered fatal for the adapter.
The adapter is internally reset by the FW triggering a restart that includes reloading the FW and re-
running all the pre-operational self-tests.

As a result of configuration changes, a connection can transition to outputting data in a non-protected
form with EDIF disabled.
The  following  conditions  need  to  be  met  in  the  transition  to  non-encrypted  mode  of  operation  for  a
connection that prevents the inadvertent bypass of plaintext data due to a single error:
a.  The module receives a command for the connection, in order for the connection to move to a non-

encrypted mode of operation.

b.  The module will verify the integrity of the governing bypass information in the connection table aka
Remote  Peer  Information  (RPI)  table  through  an  approved  integrity  technique  (SHA2-256)
immediately preceding modification of the governing information and generate a new integrity value
using the Approved integrity technique immediately following the modification. A failure in this test
is considered fatal for the adapter. The adapter is internally reset by the FW triggering a restart that
includes reloading the FW and re-running all the pre-operational self-tests.

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 15 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

c.  The  module  performs  a  conditional  Bypass  SP-to-SP  internal  loopback  self-test  to  check  that  the
module is in valid operational state for the connection. Check that frames targeted for the connection
are no longer encrypted and decrypted using the deactivated SADB. A failure in this test is considered
fatal  for  the  adapter.  The  adapter  is  internally  reset  by  the  FW  triggering  a  restart  that  includes
reloading the FW and re-running all the pre-operational self-tests.

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 16 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

Table 5 – Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

Role  Service

Input

CO
CO

Firmware Update

Data-In-Flight
Encryption

Firmware package and signature
Plaintext Commands from Host,
Plaintext FC Frame Data from Host

CO

Data-In-Flight
Decryption

Plaintext Commands from Host,
Encrypted FC Frames from FC Links

CO

Self-Tests

CO

Zeroize

CO

Host-based Storage
Peer Key
Management

CO

Importing SADB from
Host

CO

Link, Connection
Management

CO

Chip Management

CO

Show Version

Self-Tests are executed after Power On;
Certain Self Tests are run on a continuous basis;
Certain Self Tests are run on a conditional basis;
Certain Self Tests are run on a periodic basis;
Self-Tests can be run On-Demand by power
cycling or resetting
Zeroizes SSPs, except SSP1 (RSA Public Key In
ROM) on Reset, UnReg_SADB Command, UnReg
RPI Command, Function reset
Pass-Through Auth-ELS frames from Host;
Pass-Through Auth-ELS frames from FC Links
from Storage Peer

Security Association Data Base with
Plaintext Tx 256b key, Plaintext Rx 256b key,
Plaintext 32b Tx Salt, Plaintext 32b Rx Salt

Establishing and Monitoring connection
between peers.
See SLI Doc:  FC Command Reference
Adapter Resource Provisioning;
Configuration and Management of shared
device resources: Functions, Queues,
Exchanges, Connections etc.
See SLI Doc:  Adapter Management Commands.
Command to Show Version

CO

Show Status

CO

Diagnostic Dump

Read current Global Status: Approved Mode or
Error State
Command to send Diagnostic Dump to Host

Output

Return Status: Success or Error
Encrypted FC Frames to FC
links,
Return Status: Success or Error
Plaintext FC Frame Data to
Host,
Return Status: Success or Error
Return Status: Success or Error,
Self-Tests are executed after
Power On

Return Status: Success or Error

Pass-Through Auth-ELS frames
to FC Links to Storage Peer;
Pass-Through Auth-ELS frames
to Host from Storage Peer
Return Status: Success or Error

Return Status: Success or Error

Return Status: Success or Error

Return Adapter Version;
Return Cryptographic Module
Version;
Return ASIC Part Number;
Return FW Version
Return Global Status

Diagnostic Dump - No SSPs
dumped.

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 17 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

4.2  Services

All Approved  services  implemented  by  the  module  are  listed  in  Table  6  below.  The  module  does  not
support any non-Approved services.

The following SSPs are declared:

SSP1:   RSA Public Key stored in ROM
SSP2:   Child_SA Tx key stored in Memory in SADB data structure
SSP3:   Child_SA Rx key stored in Memory in SADB data structure
SSP4:   Child_SA Tx Salt stored in Memory in SADB data structure
SSP5:   Child_SA Rx Salt stored in Memory in SADB data structure

The SSPs modes of access shown in Table 6 are defined as:

G =   Generate: The module generates or derives the SSP.
R =   Read: The SSP is read from the module (e.g., the SSP is output).
W = Write: The SSP is updated, imported, or written to the module.
E =   Execute: The module uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation.
Z =   Zeroize: The module zeroizes SSPs.

Table 6 – Approved Services

Service

Description

Approved
Security
Functions

SSPs

Roles  Access
rights

Indicator

Firmware
Update

Data in Flight
Encryption

The Adapter can download
FW, signed using RSA 2048,
from Host to update existing
Flash code. The downloaded
FW is only enabled for
execution after the next
reset cycle, if signature
verification passes.

Signature generation is a
factory process that is
authorized to release FW
Updates.

The Module has capability to
Encrypt Transmitted FC
Frames based on Security
Association parameters
(Keys, Traffic Selectors) that
have been negotiated for a
connection

RSA Signature
Verification

SSP1: RSA Public Key
stored in ROM

CO

E

Status
Indicator:
Success,
Error

AES-GCM

SSP2: Child_SA Tx key
stored in Memory in
SADB data structure;

SSP4: Child_SA Tx Salt
stored in Memory in
SADB data structure

CO

E, Z

Status
Indicator:
Success,
Error

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 18 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

Service

Description

Data in Flight
Decryption

Self-Tests

The module has capability to
Decrypt Received FC Frames,
and enforce encryption
requirements based on
Security Association
parameters (Keys, Traffic
Selectors) that have been
negotiated for a connection.

Self-Tests are executed after
Power On
Certain Self Tests are run on
a continuous basis
Certain Self Tests are run on
a conditional basis
Certain Self Tests are run on
a periodic basis

Approved
Security
Functions

AES-GCM

AES-GCM;

DRBG;

ENT - RCT, APT

RSA2048;

SHA2-256

Zeroize

Zeroizes SSPs, except SSP1
(RSA Public Key, In ROM)

Zeroization
process

SSPs

Roles  Access
rights

Indicator

Status
Indicator:
Success,
Error

Status
Indicator:
Success,
Error

Status
Indicator:
Success,
Error

CO

E, Z

SSP3: Child_SA Rx key
stored in Memory in
SADB data structure;

SSP5: Child_SA Rx Salt
stored in Memory in
SADB data structure

N/A

CO

N/A

CO

Z

SSP2: Child_SA Tx key
stored in Memory in
SADB data structure;
SSP3: Child_SA Rx key
stored in Memory in
SADB data structure;

SSP4:  Child_SA  Tx  Salt
stored in Memory in SADB
data structure;

SSP5:  Child_SA  Rx  Salt
stored in Memory in SADB
data structure

N/A

No security
functions on
module used

CO

N/A

Status
Indicator:
Success,
Error

Host-based
Storage Peer
Key
Management

The Host executes protocol
(typically AUTH_ELS) for
establishing Security
Association with a Storage
Peer that it wants to
establish a connection with
EDIF capability.
The module provides pass-
through facility for
AUTH_ELS frames from Host
to Peer.

The module provides pass-
through facility for Auth_ELS
frames from Peer to Host.

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 19 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

Service

Description

Importing
SADB from
Host

The Host sends SADB
parameters to module.

Approved
Security
Functions

No security
functions on
module used

SSPs

Roles  Access
rights

Indicator

CO

Write

Status
Indicator:
Success,
Error

SSP2: Child_SA Tx key
stored in Memory in
SADB data structure;

SSP3: Child_SA Rx key
stored in Memory in
SADB data structure;

SSP4:  Child_SA  Tx  Salt
stored in Memory in SADB
data structure;

SSP5: Child_SA Rx Salt
stored in Memory in
SADB data structure

Link,
Connection
Management

Chip
Management

Show Version

Establishing and Monitoring
connection between peers.
See SLI Doc:  FC Command
Reference

Adapter Resource
Provisioning
Configuration and
Management of shared
device resources: Functions,
Queues, Exchanges,
Connections etc.
See SLI Doc:  Adapter
Management Commands.

Provides the version ID of
the running firmware.
See SLI Doc:  Adapter
Management Commands.

N/A

N/A

No security
functions on
module used

No security
functions on
module used

No security
functions on
module used

N/A

N/A

Show Status

Read current Global Status:
Approved Mode or Error
State.

No security
functions on
module used

CO

N/A

CO

N/A

CO

N/A

CO

N/A

Diagnostic
Dump

Command to send Diagnostic
Dump to Host. No SSPs are
included in the dump.

No security
functions on
module used

N/A

CO

N/A

Status
Indicator:
Success,
Error

Status
Indicator:
Success,
Error

Status
Indicator:
Version
Numbers

Status
Indicator:
Global
Mode of
Operation

Status
Indicator:
Success,
Error

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 20 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

5  Software/Firmware Security

The module is composed of the following major firmware components:

•  SRB (Software Register Block) Processor FW
•  ULP (Upper Layer Protocol) Processors FW
•  SP (Support Processor) FW

The firmware components are protected with an RSA 2048 digital signature described in Table 3 –
Approved Algorithms.

The operator can initiate the FW integrity test on demand by initiating a PCIe Reset or a Power Cycle.

6  Operational Environment

The module has a limited operational environment under the FIPS 140-3 definitions.

The module includes a firmware load service to support necessary updates. Firmware versions validated
through the FIPS 140-3 CMVP program will be explicitly identified on a validation certificate. Any firmware
not identified in  this Security  Policy does not  constitute the  module defined by  this Security Policy or
covered by this validation.

7  Physical Security

The module asserts conformance with FIPS 140-3 Level 1 requirements only. The module is constructed
of production grade components with a standard passivation applied to all.

8  Non-Invasive Security

The module does not implement any mitigation method against non-invasive attack.

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 21 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

9  Sensitive Security Parameter (SSP) Management

The SSPs access methods are described in Table 7 below:

Table 7 – SSP Management Methods

Method

Description

G1

G2

G3

G4

S1

S2

E1

Z1

Z2

Generated external to the module and installed during manufacturing

Unmodified output of the internal ENT (P) during power-up

Derived from the DRBG input per [90Ar1]

Generated external to the module on the host

Stored in plaintext in volatile memory (RAM)

Stored in ROM in plaintext

Input in plaintext from the host

Zeroized by module power cycle or hard reset

Zeroized by overwriting with a fixed pattern when no longer required and by the zeroize
command

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 22 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

9.1  Sensitive Security Parameters (SSP)

All  SSPs  used  by  the  module  are  described  in  this  section.  All  usage  of  these  SSPs  by  the  module  is
described in the services detailed in Section 4.2 Services.

Table 8 – SSPs Management

SSP

Strength
(in bits)

Security
Function /
Cert.

Gene-
ration

Import
/Export

Estab-
lishment  Storage  Zeroisation

Use / Related SSPs

SSP2: Child_SA Tx   256

AES-GCM [38D]
/#A2695

N/A

G4
Generated
External to
the Module
on the Host

E1
Input in
Plaintext from
the Host

S1
Stored in
plaintext in
volatile
memory (RAM)

Data in Flight Encryption.
256b key stored in memory in
SADB data structure

Z1
Zeroized by Module power cycle or hard
reset

Z2
Zeroized by overwriting with a fixed
pattern, when no longer required, on
UNREG_SADB command or UNREG_RPI
command or PCIe Function Reset

SSP3: Child_SA
Rx

256

AES-GCM [38D]
/#A2695

SSP4: Child_SA Tx
Salt

32

AES-GCM [38D]
/#A2695

SSP5: Child_SA
Rx Salt

32

AES-GCM [38D]
/#A2695

SSP1:
RSA Public Key

112

RSA
/#A2691
SHA
/#A2694

G4

Generated
External to
the Module

on the Host

G4

Generated
External to
the Module

on the Host

G4

Generated
External to
the Module

on the Host

E1

N/A

S1

Z1

Input in
Plaintext from

the Host

Stored in
plaintext in
volatile

memory (RAM)

Zeroized by Module power cycle or hard
reset

Z2

Zeroized by overwriting with a fixed
pattern, when no longer required, on
UNREG_SADB command or UNREG_RPI

command or PCIe Function Reset

E1

N/A

S1

Z1

Input in
Plaintext from

the Host

Stored in
plaintext in
volatile

memory (RAM)

Zeroized by Module power cycle or hard
reset

Z2

Zeroized by overwriting with a fixed
pattern, when no longer required, on
UNREG_SADB command or UNREG_RPI

command or PCIe Function Reset

E1

N/A

S1

Z1

Input in
Plaintext from

the Host

Stored in
plaintext in
volatile

memory (RAM)

Zeroized by Module power cycle or hard
reset

Z2

Zeroized by overwriting with a fixed
pattern, when no longer required, on
UNREG_SADB command or UNREG_RPI

command or PCIe Function Reset

N/A

N/A

N/A

S2

N/A

Stored in ROM

in plaintext

Data in Flight Decryption.
256b key stored in memory in
SADB data structure

Data in Flight Encryption Tx
32b salt stored in memory in
SADB data structure

Data in Flight Decryption Rx
32b salt stored in memory in
SADB data structure

RSA 2048 Public Key for
firmware signature
verification

9.2  DRBG Entropy Source

The module supports an entropy source, which is not currently used.

Table 9 – Entropy Source

Entropy Sources

Minimum
number of
entropy bits

Details

N/A

N/A

N/A

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 23 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

10  Self-Tests

The module performs self-tests to ensure the proper operation of the module. Per FIPS 140-3, these are
categorized as either pre-operational self-tests or conditional self-tests.

Pre-operational self–tests are available on demand by power cycling the module.

The self-tests error states and status indicator are described in table below:

Table 10 – Error States and Indicators

Error
state

ES0

ES1

ES2

Description

The module fails the RSA KAT OR
the SHA2-256 KAT OR
The module fails SRB Processor Firmware Integrity Test
----------------------------
On any failure, the module will indicate an error and halt. No
services are available in this state.

The module fails SP processor FW Integrity Test or
The module fails ULP FW Integrity Test or
The module fails AES-GCM, Pre-Operational Bypass Test, DRBG
KAT, SP800-90B RCT or APT self-tests
-------------------------------
On any failure, the module will indicate an error and reset.

The module fails bypass conditional self-test or
The DRBG fails [90Ar1] Health Tests or
The ENT fails the RCT and APT Continuous Health Tests.
------------------------

On any failure, the Module will indicate an error and reset.

Indicator

On Error:

Error indication in SECURITY_ERROR
register

On Error:
READY bit set to 0 in PORT STATUS
register with error details further
provided in PORT ERROR1 and ERROR2
registers

On Error:
READY bit set to 0 in PORT STATUS
register with error details further
provided in PORT ERROR1 and ERROR2
registers

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 24 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

The Module performs the following pre-operational self-tests:

Table 11 – Pre-Operational Self-Tests

Security Function  Method

Description

Error state

SRB Firmware
integrity

SigVer, RSA2048,
SHA2-256

The SRB processor module performs the SRB Firmware
Integrity Test using RSA 2048 (CAVP Cert. #A2691) and
SHA2-256 (CAVP Cert. #A2694).

SP FW Integrity

SigVer, RSA2048,
SHA2-256

The SP processor module performs the SP Firmware
Integrity Test using RSA 2048 (CAVP Cert. #A2691) and
SHA2-256 (CAVP Cert. #A2694).

ULP FW Integrity

SigVer, RSA2048,
SHA2-256

The SP processor module performs the ULP Firmware
Integrity Test using RSA 2048 (CAVP Cert. #A2691) and
SHA2-256 (CAVP Cert. #A2694).

ES0

ES1

ES1

Bypass

Activation switch
testing

As a part of Pre-Operation Self-Test, the module verifies
the data path by

ES1

-  Setting the bypass switch to provide cryptographic
processing and verify that data transferred through
the bypass mechanism is cryptographically processed,

and

-  Setting the bypass switch to not provide cryptographic
processing and verify that data transferred through
the bypass mechanism is not cryptographically
processed.

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 25 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

The module performs the following conditional self-tests:

Table 12 – Conditional Self-Tests

Security Function  Method

RSA (CAVP Cert.
#A2691)

KAT

Description
Before executing the FW Integrity Test, the ROM based
FW boot code executes the FIPS186-4 RSA Verify KAT
with 2048-bit key.

Error state

ES0

SHS (CAVP Cert.
#A2694)

AES – GCM (CAVP
Cert. #A2695)

KAT

KAT

Bypass

Switch integrity

ENT (ESV Cert.
#E6)

RCT, APT

Before executing the FW Integrity Test, the ROM based
FW boot code executes the FIPS180-4 SHA2-256 KAT.

SP800-38D  GCM  Encrypt  KAT  with  256-bit  key.  Please
note the module does not employ the inverse function.

The module will verify the integrity of the governing
bypass information in the connection table aka Remote
Peer Information (RPI) table through an approved
integrity technique (SHA2-256) immediately preceding
modification of the governing information and generate
a new integrity value using the Approved integrity
technique immediately following the modification.
On a transition from non-encrypted to encrypted mode,
the module verifies the data path by:
-  Setting the bypass switch to provide cryptographic
processing and verify that data transferred through
the bypass mechanism is encrypted.

On a transition from encrypted to non-encrypted mode,
the module verifies the data path by:
-  Setting the bypass switch to not provide cryptographic
processing and verify that data transferred through
the bypass mechanism is not encrypted.

ESV Cert. #E6. "Startup" Tests (RCT, APT) as specified in
[90B] section 4.4 Approved Continuous Health Tests.
Results are available in the status register. The entropy
source is only executed during self-tests.

DRBG (CAVP Cert.
#A2696)

KAT

CTR_DRBG KAT with AES 256
Results are available in the status register.

ES0

ES1

ES2

ES1

ES1

DRBG KAT (CAVP Cert. #A2696), which also covers the
AES ECB (CAVP #A2692) implementation that is solely
used within the DRBG.

The DRBG and associated AES ECB implementations are
only executed during self-tests.

The Instantiation, Generate, and Reseed KAT is run
before executing every Instantiate, Reseed, and
Generate command.

ES2

DRBG Health Test

KAT

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 26 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

Security Function  Method

ENT Health Test

RCT, APT

Description
The DRBG and associated AES ECB implementations are
only executed during self-tests.

Error state

RCT and APT tests as specified in [90B] Section 4.4
Approved Continuous Health Tests are executed on an
ongoing basis.

ES2

Firmware Update

Signature
Verification

RSA Signature Verification (CAVP Cert. #A2691) of
firmware update packages using SSP1.

The entropy source is only executed during self-tests.

Transient
error.
Update
rejected.

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 27 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

11  Life-Cycle Assurance

11.1   Procedures for Secure Installation, Initialization, Startup and Operation of the Module.

The cryptographic module does not require any installation activities as it is delivered to the customer
installed on a PCIe Host Bus Adapter.

The PCIe Host  Bus  Adapter  can  be  plugged into an appropriate PCIe slot on a server and  is ready for
operation on Power-On. All required configuration details are programmed at the factory.

The module will offer the declared services only in the Approved mode of operation. The module status
can be determined by reading the READY status in the PORT_STATUS PCIe config register. If the module
does not come up in the Approved mode of operation, it will have to be returned to the factory.

11.2  Administrator and Non-Administrator Guidance

The  module  Approved  mode  status  can  be  monitored  regularly  by  reading  the  READY  status  in  the
PORT_STATUS PCIe config register, which will be set to ‘1’ for Approved Mode.

All ephemeral keys used by the module are zeroized on reboot, loss of power, connection termination or
by the supported Zeroize command.

12  Mitigation of Other Attacks

The module does not implement any mitigation method against other attacks.

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 28 of 29

Broadcom, Inc.

13  References and Definitions

The following standards are referred to in this Security Policy.

Table 13 – References

Abbreviation

Full Specification Name

[FIPS140-3]

[ISO19790]

[ISO24759]

[IG]

[131A]

[133]

[186]

[197]

[180]

[38A]

[38D]

[90Ar1]

[90B]

Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules, March 22, 2019

International Standard, ISO/IEC 19790, Information technology — Security techniques
— Test requirements for cryptographic modules, Third edition, March 2017

International Standard, ISO/IEC 24759, Information technology — Security techniques
—  Test  requirements  for  cryptographic  modules,  Second  and  Corrected  version,  15
December 2015

Implementation  Guidance  for  FIPS  PUB  140-3  and  the  Cryptographic  Module
Validation Program, October 7, 2022

Transitions: Recommendation for Transitioning the Use of Cryptographic Algorithms
and Key Lengths, Revision 2, March 2019

NIST Special Publication 800-133, Recommendation for Cryptographic Key Generation,
Revision 2, June 2020

National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology,  Digital  Signature  Standard  (DSS),
Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 186-4, July 2013.

National Institute of Standards and Technology, Advanced Encryption Standard (AES),
Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 197, November 26, 2001

National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology,  Secure  Hash  Standard,  Federal
Information Processing Standards Publication 180-4, August, 2015

National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology,  Recommendation  for  Block  Cipher
Modes of Operation, Methods and Techniques, Special Publication 800-38A, December
2001

National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology,  Recommendation  for  Block  Cipher
Modes of Operation: Galois/Counter Mode (GCM) and GMAC, Special Publication 800-
38D, November 2007

National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology,  Recommendation  for  Random
Number Generation Using Deterministic Random Bit Generators, Special Publication
800-90A, Revision 1, June 2015.

National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology,  Recommendation  for  the  Entropy
Sources Used for Random Bit Generation, Special Publication 800-90B, January 2018.

Version 1.2
Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. Copyright 2025 Broadcom, Inc.
May only be distributed in its entirety without modification.
The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom and/or its subsidiaries

Page 29 of 29

