Samsung SATA TCG Opal SSC SEDs PM893 Series

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Document Version: 1.0

Hardware Version: MZ7L3480HCHQ-00AMV, MZ7L3960HCJR-00AMV

Firmware Version: JXTC1M8Q

Revision History

Version

1.0

Initial Version

Change

2

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Table of Contents

I.

INTRODUCTION

I.1.

SCOPE

I.2.  ACRONYMS

1.  GENERAL

2.  CRYPTOGRAPHIC MODULE SPECIFICATION

2.1.  CRYPTOGRAPHIC BOUNDARY

2.2.  VERSION INFORMATION

2.3.  CRYPTOGRAPHIC FUNCTIONALITY

2.3.1.  APPROVED ALGORITHM

2.3.2.  NON-APPROVED ALGORITHM

2.4.  APPROVED MODE OF OPERATION

3.  CRYPTOGRAPHIC MODULE INTERFACES

4.  ROLES, SERVICES, AND AUTHENTICATION

4.1.  ROLE

4.2.  APPROVED SERVICES

5.  SOFTWARE/FIRMWARE SECURITY

6.  OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT

7.  PHYSICAL SECURITY

8.  NON-INVASIVE SECURITY

9.  SENSITIVE SECURITY PARAMETER MANAGEMENT

10.  SELF-TESTS

10.1.  PRE-OPERATIONAL TEST

10.2.  CONDITIONAL TEST

10.3.

ERROR STATES

11.  LIFE-CYCLE ASSURANCE

11.1.

SECURE INSTALLATION

11.2.  OPERATIONAL DESCRIPTION OF MODULE

12.  MITIGATION OF OTHER ATTACKS

3

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

4

4

4

5

6

6

7

8

8

8

9

9

10

10

10

12

13

14

15

16

18

18

18

19

20

20

20

21

I.

Introduction

I.1.

Scope

This document is a non-proprietary security policy for SAMSUNG SATA TCG Opal SSC SEDs PM893 Series, hereinafter
referred to as a “cryptographic module” or “module”. The SSD (Solid State Drive) satisfies all applicable FIPS 140-3 Security
Level 1 requirements, supporting TCG Opal SSC based SED (Self-Encrypting Drive) features. It is designed to protect
unauthorized access to the user data stored in its NAND flash memories. The built-in AES hardware engines in the
cryptographic module’s controller provide on-the-fly encryption and decryption of the user data without performance loss.
The SED’s nature also provides instantaneous sanitization of the user data via cryptographic erase.

I.2.  Acronyms

Acronym

Description

CTRL
CPU
DRAM
DRAM I/F
ECC
KAT
LBA
MEK
PSID
NAND
NAND I/F
SATA
ROM

Controller
Central Processing Unit (ARM-based)
Dynamic Random Access Memory
Dynamic Random Access Memory Interface
Error Correcting Code
Known Answer Test
Logical Block Address
Media Encryption Key
Physical Presence SID (Security Identifier)
NAND Flash Memory
NAND Flash Interface
Serial ATA(Advanced Technology Attachment)
Read-Only Memory

Table 1. Acronyms

4

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

1.  General

Security Level

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

ISO/IEC 24759
Section 6.
[Number Below]
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12

General
Cryptographic module specification
Cryptographic module interfaces
Roles, services, and authentication
Software/Firmware security
Operational environment
Physical security
Non-invasive security
Sensitive security parameter management
Self-tests
Life-cycle assurance
Mitigation of other attacks

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
N/A
1
1
1
N/A

Table 2. Security Levels

5

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

2.  Cryptographic Module Specification

2.1.  Cryptographic Boundary

The following photographs depict the different views of the cryptographic module. This multiple-chip embedded module
comprises both hardware and firmware components. The module type is hardware.

The cryptographic boundary of the module is the physical perimeter of the PCB as following.

Figure 1. Specification of the PM893 2.5’’ Form Factor Cryptographic Boundary

6

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

The firmware utilizes a single-chip controller with a SATA interface on the system side, as well as Samsung NAND flash.
The following figure depicts the module’s operational environment. The firmware version included within the scope of
this validation must be validated through the FIPS 140-3 CMVP. Any firmware loaded onto this module that is not shown
on the module certificate, is out of the scope of this validation and requires a separate FIPS 140-3 validation.

Figure 2. Block Diagram for Samsung SSD SATA TCG Opal SSC SEDs PM893 Series

2.2.  Version Information

Model

Hardware Version

Firmware Version

PM893

MZ7L3480HCHQ-00AMV
MZ7L3960HCJR-00AMV

JXTC1M8Q

Table 3. Cryptographic Module Tested Configuration

Distinguishing
Features

480GB
960GB

7

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

2.3.  Cryptographic Functionality

The module does not implement any "Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation".

2.3.1.   Approved Algorithm

The cryptographic module supports the following approved algorithms for secure data storage:

CAVP Cert

Algorithm and Standard

Mode / Method

A2107

A2108

A2108

A2109

A2110

Vendor Affirmed

N/A

Hash DRBG /
SP 800-90A Rev. 1
AES-ECB /
FIPS 197, SP 800-38A
AES-XTS /
FIPS 197, SP 800-38E
SHA2-256 /
FIPS 180-4
RSA SigVer /
FIPS 186-4
CKG /
SP 800-133 Rev. 2
(Section 4, 5.1, 6.3)
ENT (P) /
SP 800-90B

Hash_ DRBG
(SHA2-256)
ECB

XTS

SHA2-256

PSS SigVer (SHA2-
256)
N/A

N/A

Description /
Key Size(s) /
Key Strength(s)
Prediction Resistance: No
Supports Reseed
256-bit keys with 256-bit
key strength
256-bit keys with 256-bit
key strength
SHA2-256

Use / Function

Deterministic Random Bit
Generation
Prerequisite for AES-XTS
(A2108)
Data Encryption and
Decryption
Message Digest

2048 bits

Digital Signature Verification

N/A

N/A

Cryptographic Key Generation
using DRBG.

Non-deterministic Random
Number Generator (only used
for generating seed materials
for the DRBG). Provides a
minimum of 256 bits of
entropy for DRBG seed.

Note that not all algorithms/modes that appear on the module’s CAVP certificates are utilized by the module. Table 4 lists only
the algorithms/modes that are utilized by the module.

Table 4. Approved Algorithms

2.3.2.   Non-Approved Algorithm

Algorithm

AES-CCM /
FIPS 197, SP 800-38C

AES-XTS /
FIPS 197, SP 800-38E

HMAC-SHA2-256 /
FIPS 198-1
(non-compliant)

PBKDF2 /
SP 800-132

SHA2-256 /
FIPS 180-4
(non-compliant)

Caveat

Use / Function

Key obfuscation and removal
of obfuscation

Firmware obfuscation removal

Store authentication data

Store authentication data

Store authentication data

No Security Claimed; Non-approved
algorithm here is only used for
obfuscation and removal of obfuscation
the CSP. (IG 2.4.A Scenario #1)
No security claimed; AES-XTS is only
used to remove obfuscation from the
firmware during ROM initialized.
Non-approved algorithm here are only
used as pre-requisite algorithms for
PBKDF2 which is used for storing
authentication data. (IG 2.4.A Scenario
#1)
Non-approved algorithms here are only
used for storing authentication data
using PBKDF2 (IG 2.4.A Scenario #1)
Non-approved algorithm here are only
used as pre-requisite algorithms for
PBKDF2 which is used for storing
authentication data. (IG 2.4.A Scenario
#1)

8

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Table 5. Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security Claimed

2.4.  Approved Mode of Operation

The module only supports one mode of operation: the Approved mode, in which the Approved cryptographic functions are
available. The module automatically transitions to the Approved mode of operation after completing its pre-operational
self-tests. The cryptographic module indicates its approved mode through the validated version status, displayed by the
Show Status Service in Table 8 via the ATA Identify Controller command. In the approved mode of operation, non-approved
algorithms are allowed, but with no security claims in the module.

3.  Cryptographic Module Interfaces

The module doesn’t support a Control output interface.

Physical Port

Logical Interface Type

Data that Passes Over Port / Interface

SATA Connector

JTAG

Data Input / Output

Control Input

Status Output

Control Input

Status Output

Plaintext data; signed data; User Data Input / Output
SATA Command Input logically via an API; signals input
logically or physically via one or more physical ports
SATA Command Execution Response logically via an API;
signal outputs logically or physically via one or more
physical ports

JTAG signal input logically or physically via physical ports

Diagnostic Information outputs logically or physically via
one or more physical ports

Table 6. Ports and Interfaces

9

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

4.  Roles, Services, and Authentication

4.1.  Role

The cryptographic module does not support role-based authentication. Roles are implicitly assumed based on the service
they are invoking.

Role

Service

Input

Output

Show Status
Lock/Unlock an LBA Range
Erase an LBA Range’s Data
Update the firmware
Get Random Number
IO Command
Sanitize
Revert
Perform the Self-tests
Authentication
Diagnostics

Cryptographic
Officer (CO)

Maintenance1

ATA Command
LBA Range
LBA Range
Firmware image binary
TCG Command
LBA Range
LBA Range
PSID
N/A
N/A
N/A

Status
Status
Status
Status
Status
Status
Status
N/A
Status
Status
N/A

Table 7. Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

4.2.  Approved Services

The  cryptographic  module  only  supports  the  following  approved  services  and  does  not  support  any  non-approved
services. The abbreviations of the type of access to keys and SSPs have the following interpretation:

•

•

E = Execute: The module performs approved security functions with the SSPs.

G = Generate: The module generates or derives the SSP.

•  W = Write: The SSP is updated, imported, or written to the volatile storage specified in Table 12.

•

Z = Zeroise: The module zeroises the SSP.

Service

Description

Show Status

Lock / Unlock
an LBA Range

Erase an LBA
Range’s Data

Show approved
version status of
the module /
FIPS fail mode
Block or allow
read (decrypt) /
write (encrypt)
of user data.

Erase user data
by changing the
data encryption
key.

Approved
Security
Functions

N/A

N/A

SSPs

Roles

CO

N/A

MEK3

O  O

O

Hash_ DRBG
/ A2107

SHA2-256 /
A2109

DRBG “V”
Value
DRBG “C”
Value
DRBG Seed

O

O

O

O

O

O

E: EXECUTE; W: WRITE; G: GENERATE; Z: ZEROISE

Type(s) of
Access

E  W  G  Z

Indicator2

ATA Command:
Identify Controller
command
Result : Status Code
UID: Locking_GlobalRange /
Locking_RangeNNNN
TCG Method: Set
Result: TCG status code
UID:
K_AES_256_GlobalRange_K
ey /
K_AES_256_RangeNNNN_K
ey

1  Maintenance role is an operator responsible for using the JTAG.

2  The result of ATA or TCG command is used as an indicator.

3  Specified type of access of Lock/Unlock an LBA Range service to MEK was limited to only RAM.

10

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Update the
Firmware

Update the
firmware

Get Random
Number

Provide a
random number
generated by the
CM

IO Command

Read / Write
user data

Sanitize

Erase user data
by changing the
data encryption
key

Revert

Erase user data
in all Range by
changing the
data

Perform the
Self-tests

Power cycling
the module to
perform self-
tests

CKG

ENT(P)

RSA SigVer /
A2110

Hash_ DRBG
/ A2107

SHA2-256 /
A2109

CKG

ENT(P)

AES-XTS /
A2108

Hash_ DRBG
/ A2107

SHA2-256 /
A2109

CKG

ENT(P)
Hash_ DRBG
/ A2107

SHA2-256 /
A2109

CKG

ENT(P)

DRBG Entropy
Input String

MEK
Firmware
Verification
Key
DRBG “V”
Value
DRBG “C”
Value
DRBG Seed

DRBG Entropy
Input String

MEK

DRBG “V”
Value
DRBG “C”
Value
DRBG Seed
DRBG Entropy
Input String

MEK

DRBG “V”
Value
DRBG “C”
Value
DRBG Seed
DRBG Entropy
Input String

MEK

N/A

N/A

No Security
Claimed –

O

O

TCG Method: GenKey
Result: TCG status code

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O  O  O

Admin Command:
DOWNLOAD MICROCODE
Result : Status Code

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O

O  O  O

O

O

O

O

O  O  O

UID: ThisSP
TCG Method: Random
Result: TCG status code

ATA Command:
Read / Write
Result : Status Code

Admin Command:
SANITIZE DEVICE /
SECURITY ERASE UNIT
Result : Status Code

UID: SPObj (Admin SP)
TCG Method: Revert
Result: TCG status code

Level 0 Discovery CMD
return a failure as a failure
indicator

Authentication

Authenticate the
module.

PBKDF2

(This is not
authentication to
meet the FIPS
140-3
requirements)

HMAC-
SHA2-256
(non-
compliant)

SHA2-256
(non-
compliant)

N/A

N/A

Diagnostics

Perform
Maintenance

N/A

N/A

Maintenance

N/A

Table 8. Approved Services

11

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

5.  Software/Firmware Security

-

The LDPC (Low-density parity-check) code is applied for integrity test to firmware components of cryptographic module.

-  When firmware is downloaded into the module, 1024 bytes LDPC parity data per each 8KB data size is generated and

integrity test is performed by verifying it every time it is loaded to initiate.

-

The firmware integrity test is performed when power on reset.

12

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

6.  Operational Environment

-

-

-

-

The cryptographic module operates in a limited operational environment, consisting of the module’s firmware. This
limited operational environment does not require any specific security rules, settings, configurations, or restrictions to be
set.

The cryptographic module does not provide any general-purpose operating system to the operator.

Firmware download is only available for CMVP validated firmware versions. Unauthorized modification of the firmware is
prevented by the pre-operational firmware integrity test and conditional firmware load test.

Since the cryptographic module is zeroized through the maintenance role procedure, it is restricted to prevent
uncontrolled access to CSPs and unauthorized modifications to SSPs.

13

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

7.  Physical Security

The following physical security mechanisms are implemented in a cryptographic module:

•

Production grade components.

The  following  table  summarizes  the  actions  required  by  the  Cryptographic  Officer  Role  to  ensure  that  physical  security  is
maintained:

Physical Security
Mechanisms

Production grade
components

Recommended Frequency of
Inspection/Test

Inspection/Test Guidance Details

N/A

N/A

Table 9. Inspection / Testing of Physical Security Mechanisms

The  cryptographic  module  supports  the  Maintenance  role.  To  assume  the  Maintenance  role,  operators  must  comply  with  the
following rule:

•

•

•

The operator must zeroise all SSPs listed in the Table 10 by invoking the Revert service in the Table 8 and initiate the Power
on reset before entering the Maintenance role.

To exit the Maintenance role, the operator must procedurally perform the Revert service in the Table 8 and perform a
power-on reset of the module. To finish with, the operator performing the Show Status service in Table 8 confirms the
original firmware version listed in the Table 3 remains unchanged.

The operator is responsible for managing the module's JTAG port and should conduct regular inspections associated with
the  enabled  JTAG  port  as  frequently  as  possible  in  order  to  prevent  potential  security  risks  such  as  potential  code
modifications with no firmware load test, reading and writing of register information or other impactful security changes.

14

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

8.  Non-Invasive Security

The module does not implement any non-invasive attack mitigation techniques. Therefore, this section is not applicable.

15

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

9.  Sensitive Security Parameter Management

-

-

-

Temporary SSPs and SSPs stored in volatile memory are automatically zeroized upon power-on reset.

The module performs zeroization by overwriting the target SSP with random values generated by the DRBG.

The module does not import or export SSPs.

Key /
SSP Name
/ Type

Strength

Security Function
and Cert. Number

Generation

Import /
Export

Establish
-ment

Storage

Zeroisatio
n

Use &
Related Keys

DRBG “C”
Value / CSP

440-bit

Hash_ DRBG / A2107

SHA2-256 / A2109

DRBG “V”
Value / CSP

440-bit

Hash_ DRBG / A2107

SHA2-256 / A2109

SP 800-90A
Hash_ DRBG /
A2107

SHA2-256 /
A2109
SP 800-90A
Hash_ DRBG /
A2107

SHA2-256 /
A2109

N/A

N/A

Plaintext in
RAM

N/A

N/A

Plaintext in
RAM

Entropy
input:
512-bit
Nonce
256-bit

512-bit /
256-bit

DRBG Seed
/ CSP

DRBG
Entropy
Input
String / CSP

Hash_ DRBG / A2107

SHA2-256 / A2109

Hash_ DRBG / A2107

ENT (P)

N/A

N/A

SHA2-256 / A2109

ENT (P)

N/A

N/A

ENT (P)

MEK / CSP

256-bit

AES-XTS / A2108

CKG

SP 800-90A
Hash_ DRBG /
A2107

SHA2-256 /
A2109

N/A

N/A

Plaintext in
RAM

Plaintext in
RAM

Plain Text
in RAM

Plaintext in
Flash

Generates
the MEK

Generates
the MEK

Generates
the MEK

Generates
the MEK

Data
encryption
and
decryption
of user data

Implicitly
zeroised
by Power
on reset

Implicitly
zeroised
by Power
on reset

Implicitly
zeroised
by Power
on reset

Implicitly
zeroised
by Power
on reset

Implicitly
zeroised
by Power
on reset /
Explicitly
zeroised
via “Lock
an LBA
Range”
and
indicate
with its
indicator
Explicitly
zeroised
via
“Erase an
LBA
Range’s
Data”,
“Revert”
and
“Sanitize”
services
and
indicate

16

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Firmware
Verification
Key / Non-
SSP

112-bit

RSA SigVer / A2110

SHA2-256 / A2109

Entered during
manufacturing

N/A

N/A

with their
indicator
Implicitly
zeroised
by Power
on reset /
Explicitly
zeroised
by after
completio
n of
“Update
the
firmware”
with its
indicator

Firmware
Load Test

Plaintext in
Hardware
SFR4

Plaintext in
ROM

N/A

Table 10. SSPs

-

The module contains an entropy source, compliant with SP 800-90B, within the module’s cryptographic boundary.

Entropy sources

Minimum Number of bits of
Entropy
0.5 entropy per bit5
Table 11. Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification

Details

Entropy source for Hash_DRBG

ENT (P)

4  HW SFR (Special Function Register) is a register within a hardware cryptographic algorithm IP, which has characteristic of volatile memory.

5  Estimated amount of entropy per the source’s output bit is 0.72595 and Samsung conservatively claims to be set at 0.5 per bit.

17

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

10.   Self-Tests

All cryptographic algorithm self-tests are executed during power-on. During the executing these  self-tests, all data  output  is
inhibited until the tests are completed. To execute the periodic self-test on-demand, the operator can power-cycle the module.
If a cryptographic module fails a self-test, the module will enter an error state. While in this state, all data output is inhibited.
Any additional requests for cryptographic services return a failure indicator.

10.1.  Pre-operational Test

Algorithm

Type

LDPC

Firmware
integrity test

Description

Firmware integrity test is performed by using 1024 byte error
correction code (ECC) at power-on.
Table 12. Pre-operational Self-tests

10.2.  Conditional Test

-

The module does not support Periodic Self-Testing.

Algorithm

Type

Description

AES-XTS

Critical function test

AES-XTS

AES-ECB

SHA2-256

RSA SigVer

Cryptographic
algorithm self-test
Cryptographic
algorithm self-test
Cryptographic
algorithm self-test
Cryptographic
algorithm self-test

RSA SigVer  Firmware load test

Hash DRBG

Hash DRBG

ENT (P)

Cryptographic
algorithm self-test
Cryptographic
algorithm self-test
Cryptographic
algorithm self-test

Duplicate Key Test for AES-XTS described in FIPS 140-3 IG C.I (i.e. key_1 ≠
key_2) when key is generated
KAT: AES-256 XTS mode encryption and decryption

KAT: AES-256 ECB mode encryption and decryption

KAT: SHA2-256 hash digest

KAT: RSA-2048 with SHA2-256 signature verification is performed before
firmware load test
RSA-2048 with SHA2-256 signature verification is performed if new FW is
downloaded or at every power-on-reset

KATs: HASH-DRBG(SHA2-256)

SP 800-90A Health testing on Instantiate, Generate and Reseed functions

Startup  and  Conditional  SP800-90B  Heath  tests:  Repetition  count  test,
Adaptive proportion test

Table 13. Conditional Self-Tests

18

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

10.3.  Error States

Name

Description

Conditions

Recovery Method

Indicator

Power Cycle

Error State

Download Mode

The module
does not
provide any
crypto
operation.

Hang

Any conditional
known answer test
failure.
When the Integrity
Test for the
Bootloader fails.
When the Integrity
Test for the Main
Firmware fails.

Table 14: Error States

The firmware rejects
all subsequent SATA
commands by
responding with
'Abort,' as specified in
the SATA specification,
and sets the device
status to 'Device Fault.'

19

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

11. Life-Cycle Assurance

The  cryptographic  module  operates  in  the  Approved  mode  of  operation  by  default  upon  shipment  from  the  vendor’s
manufacturing site and does  not  support  a  non-approved mode of operation.  Section 11.1 provides guidance on the rules for
secure installation and operation. Operators must follow this guidance to ensure the cryptographic module operates in compliance
with FIPS 140-3 security level 1 requirements.

11.1.  Secure Installation

•

Identify the firmware version in the device.
-

Confirm that the firmware version is equivalent to the version(s) listed in this document via ATA Identify
Controller command.

11.2.  Operational Description of Module

•

•
•
•

•

•
•
•
•

•
•

The cryptographic module shall maintain logical separation of data input, data output, control input, status
output, and power.
The cryptographic module shall not output CSPs in any form.
The cryptographic module shall use the Approved DRBG for generating all cryptographic keys.
The cryptographic module shall enforce a limited operational environment by the secure firmware load test
using RSA-2048 with SHA2-256.
The  cryptographic  module  enters  the  error  state  upon  failure  of  self-tests.  All  commands  from  the  Host
(General Purpose Computer (GPC) outside the cryptographic boundary) are rejected as “Abort” in the error
state  and  the  cryptographic  module  returns  “device  fault”  status  as  an  FIPS  Fail  Mode  defined  in  SATA
specification via the status output. Cryptographic services and data output are explicitly inhibited when in the
error state.
The cryptographic module satisfies the requirements of FIPS 140-3 IG C.I (i.e. key_1 ≠ key_2).
The module generates at a minimum 256 bits of entropy for use in key generation.
Bypass capability is not applicable to the cryptographic module.
Operators must perform a power-on reset of the module after using the “Update the firmware” service to
execute a new firmware validated by a validation authority.
The module generates symmetric keys which are unmodified outputs from the DRBG.
If you require the “Samsung SED Product Manual”, kindly reach out to the vendor contact information that is
posted in certification.

20

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

12. Mitigation of Other Attacks

The cryptographic module has not been designed to mitigate any specific attacks beyond the scope of FIPS 140-3.

21

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

