AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

Module Version: 0000000DFIPS2001

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Document Version: 1.1

Last update: 2025-01-08

Prepared by:

atsec information security corporation

4516 Seton Center Parkway, Suite 250

Austin, TX 78759

www.atsec.com

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Table of Contents

0.

Introduction......................................................................................................... 5

0.1. Overview............................................................................................................................. 5

0.2.

This Security Policy Document............................................................................................ 5

0.3. How this Security Policy was Prepared................................................................................5

1. General................................................................................................................ 6

2. Cryptographic Module Specification......................................................................7

2.1. Module Overview, Embodiment, Type.................................................................................7

2.2. Module Design, Components and Versions......................................................................... 7

2.2.1. Components Excluded from Security Requirements.....................................................8

2.3.

Security Level.....................................................................................................................9

2.4.

Tested Operational Environments.......................................................................................9

2.5. Modes of Operation of the Module...................................................................................... 9

2.6.

Security Functions...............................................................................................................9

2.6.1. Approved Security Functions........................................................................................9

2.6.2. Non-Approved Security Functions Allowed in Approved Services...............................10

2.6.3. Non-Approved   Security   Functions   Allowed   in   Approved   Services   with   No   Security
Claimed 10

2.6.4. Non-Approved Security Functions Not Allowed in Approved Services.........................10

2.7. Rules of Operation............................................................................................................ 10

3. Cryptographic Module Interfaces........................................................................11

4. Roles, Services and Authentication.....................................................................12

4.1. Roles.................................................................................................................................12

4.2. Authentication...................................................................................................................12

4.3.

Services............................................................................................................................ 12

4.3.1. Approved Services...................................................................................................... 13

4.3.2. Non-Approved Services.............................................................................................. 13

5. Software/Firmware Security................................................................................14

5.1.

Integrity Techniques......................................................................................................... 14

5.2. On-Demand Integrity Test................................................................................................. 14

6. Operational Environment....................................................................................15

6.1. Applicability......................................................................................................................15

6.2.

Tested Operational Environments..................................................................................... 15

6.3.

Policy and Requirements...................................................................................................15

7. Physical Security................................................................................................ 16

7.1. General............................................................................................................................. 16

8. Non-Invasive Security......................................................................................... 17

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

2 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

9. Sensitive Security Parameter Management..........................................................18

9.1.

SSP Generation................................................................................................................. 18

9.2.

SSP Establishment............................................................................................................. 18

9.3.

SSP Entry/Output............................................................................................................... 18

9.4.

SSP Storage....................................................................................................................... 18

9.5.

SSP Zeroization.................................................................................................................18

9.6. Random Number Generation............................................................................................. 19

10. Self Tests...........................................................................................................20

10.1. Pre-Operational Self-Tests.................................................................................................20

10.1.1. Firmware Integrity Test.............................................................................................. 20

10.2. Conditional Tests............................................................................................................... 20

10.2.1. Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Tests............................................................................20

10.2.2. Periodic/On-Demand Self-Test....................................................................................20

10.3. Error States....................................................................................................................... 21

11. Life-Cycle Assurance........................................................................................... 22

11.1. Delivery and Operation..................................................................................................... 22

11.1.1. Secure Installation, Initialization, Start-up, and Operation.........................................22

11.1.2. Maintenance Requirements........................................................................................23

11.1.3. End of Life.................................................................................................................. 24

11.2. Administrator Guidance.................................................................................................... 24

11.3. Non-Administrator Guidance............................................................................................. 24

12. Mitigation of Other Attacks................................................................................. 25

A. Glossary and Abbreviations................................................................................ 26

B. References.........................................................................................................27

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

3 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

List of Tables

Table 1: Security Levels.................................................................................................................... 6

Table 2: Components in the Cryptographic Boundary....................................................................... 7

Table 3: Tested Operational Environments....................................................................................... 9

Table 4: Approved Algorithms...........................................................................................................9

Table 5: Ports and Interfaces.......................................................................................................... 11

Table 6: Roles, Service commands, Input, and Output....................................................................12

Table 7: Approved Services............................................................................................................. 13

Table 8: SSPs.................................................................................................................................. 18

Table 9: Self-tests...........................................................................................................................20

Table 10: Error States.....................................................................................................................21

List of Figures

Figure   1:   The   AMD   EPYC   9000   Series   SoC,   representing   all   versions   of   the   single   chip   tested
platforms.......................................................................................................................................... 7

Figure 2: Block diagram.................................................................................................................... 8

Figure 3: dmidecode indicating that FIPS module is installed.........................................................23

Figure 4: dmidecode indicating that FIPS module is not installed (first case)..................................23

Figure 5: dmidecode indicating that FIPS module is not installed (second case).............................23

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

4 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

0. Introduction

0.1. Overview

This section is informative to the reader to reference cryptographic services and other services of
AMD   ASP   Cryptographic   CoProcessor   ("Genoa")  (the   “module”)   from  Advanced   Micro   Devices
(AMD)  (the “vendor”). Only the components listed in Section  2.2  are subject to the FIPS 140-3
validation. The CMVP (Cryptographic Module Validation Program) makes no statement as to the
correct operation of the module or the security strengths of the generated keys (when supported)
if the specific operational environment is not listed on the validation certificate.

0.2. This Security Policy Document

This   Security   Policy   describes   the   features   and   design   of   the   module   named  AMD   ASP
Cryptographic   CoProcessor   ("Genoa")1  using   the   terminology   contained   in   the   FIPS   140-3
specification.   The   FIPS   140-3   Security   Requirements   for   Cryptographic   Module   specifies   the
security requirements that will be satisfied by a cryptographic module utilized within a security
system   protecting   sensitive   but   unclassified   information.   The   NIST/CCCS   Cryptographic   Module
Validation Program (CMVP) validates cryptographic module to FIPS 140-3. Validated products are
accepted by the Federal agencies of both the USA and Canada for the protection of sensitive or
designated information.

The Security Policy document is one document in a FIPS 140-3 Submission Package. In addition to
this document, the Submission Package contains:





The validation report prepared by the lab.

The Entropy Assessment Report (EAR) if applicable.

 Other supporting documentation and additional references.

This non-proprietary Security Policy may be reproduced and distributed, but only whole and intact
and including this notice. Other documentation is proprietary to their authors.

0.3. How this Security Policy was Prepared

The vendor has provided the non-proprietary Security Policy of the cryptographic module, which
was   further   consolidated   into   this   document   by   atsec   information   security   together   with   other
vendor-supplied   documentation.   In   preparing   the   Security   Policy   document,   the   laboratory
formatted   the   vendor-supplied   documentation   for   consolidation   without   altering   the   technical
statements therein contained. The further refining of the Security Policy document was conducted
iteratively throughout the conformance testing, wherein the Security Policy was submitted to the
vendor, who would then edit, modify, and add technical contents. The vendor would also supply
additional documentation, which the laboratory formatted into the existing Security Policy, and
resubmitted to the vendor for their final editing.

1 ASP: AMD Secure Processor

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

5 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

1. General

This document is the non-proprietary FIPS 140-3 Security Policy for version 0000000DFIPS2001 of
the AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa") cryptographic module. It contains the security
rules   under   which   the   module   must   operate   and   describes   how   this   module   meets   the
requirements as specified in FIPS PUB 140-3 (Federal Information Processing Standards Publication
140-3) for an overall Security Level 1 module.

Table 1 describes the individual security areas of FIPS 140-3, as well as the security levels of those
individual areas.

ISO/IEC 24759 Section
6. [Number Below]

Table 1: Security Levels

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security Level

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

General

Cryptographic Module Specification

Cryptographic Module Interfaces

Roles, Services, and Authentication

Software/Firmware Security

Operational Environment

Physical Security

Non-invasive Security

Sensitive Security Parameter Management

Self-tests

Life-cycle Assurance

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

Not Applicable

1

1

1

Mitigation of Other Attacks

Not Applicable

Overall Level

1

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

6 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

2. Cryptographic Module Specification

The following subsections describe the cryptographic module and how it conforms to the FIPS 140-
3 specification in each of the required areas.

2.1. Module Overview, Embodiment, Type

The  AMD   ASP   Cryptographic   CoProcessor   ("Genoa")  (hereafter   referred   to   as   “the   module”)   is
defined   as   a   hybrid   firmware   module   in   a   single   chip   embodiment,   with   hardware   (the
coprocessor) and firmware components implementing general purpose cryptographic algorithms.
The   module   supports   the   AMD  EPYC   9000   Series  SoC   (System   on   a   Chip)   by   providing   digital
signature   verification   of   the   key   database   during   secure   boot   procedures.   The   module   resides
within   the   Ryzen   SoC   that   contains   the   module,   the   processor,   the   firmware,   and   other
components in a single chip embodiment (Figure 1).

Figure 1: The AMD EPYC 9000 Series SoC, representing all versions of the single chip
tested platforms.

The Operational Environments tested for the module are described in Section 2.4

2.2. Module Design, Components and Versions

Figure 2  shows a block diagram that represents the design of the module. In this diagram, the
physical  perimeter of  the operational environment, defined by  the perimeter of the AMD  EPYC
9000   Series  SoC   (i.e.,   the   enclosure   of   the   SoC),   is   indicated   by   a   purple   dashed   line.   The
cryptographic   boundary   is   represented   by   the   components   painted   in   orange   blocks.   These
components are further described in Table 2.

Component

Type

Version

Description

Table 2: Components in the Cryptographic Boundary

fips_firmware

Firmware

0000000DFIPS2001

A distinct piece of firmware which
performs self-tests, provides the
service indicator and show status
service.

RSA implementation
in the CCP

Hardware

SHA2-384
implementation in
the CCP

Hardware

0000000DFIPS2001 Hardware implementation of the
algorithm.
0000000DFIPS2001 Hardware implementation of the
algorithm.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

7 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

The   flow   of   information   between   the   components   and   the   relation   between   that   data   and   the
module’s   FIPS   interfaces   are   depicted   through   arrows.   The   arrows   are   colored   differently   to
facilitate visualization. The color does not identify the type of data: the type of data flow (namely,
data input, data output, status  output and control input) is indicated by labels pointing to  the
arrows.

Components in white are only included in the diagram for informational purposes. They are not
included in the cryptographic boundary (and therefore not part of the module’s validation). For
example,   the   processor   is   responsible   for   executing   the   non-cryptographic   code   in   the
fips_firmware component.

Figure 2: Block diagram

2.2.1.

Components Excluded from Security Requirements

There are no components within the cryptographic boundary that are excluded from the FIPS 140-
3 security requirements.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

8 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

2.3. Security Level

The module is validated according to FIPS 140-3 at overall security level  1. The security levels of
individual areas are indicated in Table 1.

2.4. Tested Operational Environments

The   module   has   been   tested   on   the   operational   environments   indicated   in  Table   3  with   the
corresponding module variants and configuration options.

#

Operating
System

Table 3: Tested Operational Environments

Hardware Platform

Processor

PAA/
Acceleration

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

AMD EPYC 9B14 (100-
000000782)

AMD EPYC 9V84 (100-
000000783)

AMD EPYC 9V74 (100-
000000815)

AMD EPYC 9R14 (100-
000000905)

AMD EPYC 9654 (100-
000000789)

AMD EPYC 9554 (100-
000000790)

AMD EPYC 9354 (100-
000000798)

AMD EPYC 9B14 (100-
000000782)

AMD EPYC 9V84 (100-
000000783)

AMD EPYC 9V74 (100-
000000815)

AMD EPYC 9R14 (100-
000000905)

AMD EPYC 9654 (100-
000000789)

AMD EPYC 9554 (100-
000000790)

AMD EPYC 9354 (100-
000000798)

None

None

None

None

None

None

None

There are no vendor affirmed operational environments.

2.5. Modes of Operation of the Module

The module only implements one mode of operation, the approved mode, in which the approved
cryptographic   functions   are   available.   The   module   transitions   to   this   sole   mode   of   operation
automatically   after   the   module   completes   its   pre-operational   self-tests   and   cryptographic
algorithm self-tests performed on initialization. No configuration is necessary for the module to
operate and remain in the approved mode.

2.6. Security Functions

2.6.1.

Approved Security Functions

Table 4  lists all approved security functions (cryptographic algorithms) of the module, including
specific   key   lengths   employed   for   approved   services,   and   implemented   modes   or   methods   of
operation of the algorithms.

CAVP Cert. Algorithm and

Standard

Table 4: Approved Algorithms
Mode/Method Description, Key Size

Use / Function

/ Key Strength

A2884

RSA (FIPS 186-4) PKCSPSS with

4096

SHA2-384

Digital signature
verification

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

9 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

CAVP Cert. Algorithm and

Mode/Method Description, Key Size

Use / Function

Standard

/ Key Strength

A2884

SHA (FIPS 180-4) SHA2-384

N/A

Message digest

The module does not implement any vendor-affirmed algorithms.

2.6.2.

Non-Approved Security Functions Allowed in Approved Services

The   module   does   not   offer   any   non-approved   cryptographic   algorithms   that   are   allowed   in
approved services.

2.6.3.

Non-Approved Security Functions Allowed in Approved Services with
No Security Claimed

The   module   does   not   offer   any   non-approved   cryptographic   algorithms   that   are   allowed   in
approved services but claim no security.

2.6.4.

Non-Approved Security Functions Not Allowed in Approved Services

The module does not offer any non-approved cryptographic algorithms not allowed in approved
services.

2.7. Rules of Operation

The bootloader (which acts as the operator of the module) initializes the fips_firmware component
by loading it into memory upon power-on. After the pre-operational self-tests and cryptographic
algorithm   self-tests   performed   on   initialization   are   successfully   concluded,   the   module
automatically transitions to the operational state.

In the operational state, the module automatically performs the signature verification of the key
database using the RSA signature verification service, which is the sole service provided by the
module. The key database, RSA public key, and signature are provided as input by the operator of
the module (the bootloader). After the successful signature verification of the key database, the
module unloads itself from memory, ceasing its operation.

All the procedures described above are conducted without any human assistance. To perform the
procedures again, the module must be reset, which will trigger a new boot.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

10 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

3. Cryptographic Module Interfaces
Table   5  summarizes   the   cryptographic   module   interfaces2.   The   logical   interfaces   are   logically
separated from each other by the API design. The power interface is physically separated from any
other interface.

Physical Port

Logical Interface

Data that passes over port/interface

Table 5: Ports and Interfaces

SRAM

SRAM

SRAM

SRAM

Data Input

API input parameters for data.

Data Output

API output parameters for data.

Control Input

API function calls, API input parameters for control.

Status Output

API return codes, status values.

Power port

Power (input)
interface

Power port or pin in the single-chip.

2The module does not implement a control output interface.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

11 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

4. Roles, Services and Authentication

4.1. Roles

Table 6 lists the roles supported by the module with corresponding services with input and output.

The module supports the Crypto Officer role only. This sole role is implicitly and always assumed
by the operator of the module.

Role

Service

Input

Output

Table 6: Roles, Service commands, Input, and Output

Crypto
Officer

Digital Signature
Verification

Key database (pointer to
contents), signature, public
key

Success, fail

Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer

Show Version

None

Show Status

None

On-Demand Self-Test

None

On-Demand Integrity
Test

Zeroize

None

None

Name and version
information in data output
interface

Current status in status
output interface (as return
codes and/or log
messages)

None

None

None

4.2. Authentication

The module does not support authentication for roles.

4.3. Services

The   module   provides   services   to   operators   that   assume   the   available   role.   All   services   are
described in detail in the user documentation.

The next subsections define the services that utilize approved, allowed, and non-approved security
functions in this module. For the respective tables, the convention below applies when specifying
the access permissions (types) that the service has for each SSP.

 Generate (G): The service establishes the SSP by generation, agreement, or derivation.

 Read (R): The SSP exists in the module and is read by the service, and may be output.

 Write (W): The  caller provides the SSP to the service to be imported into the  module;

written; or updated if the SSP already exists in the module.



Execute (E) (or use): The service uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation.
Other access types identify the provenance of the SSP.

 Zeroize (Z): The service zeroizes the SSP.

 N/A: The service does not access any SSP or key during its operation.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

12 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

The module provides only one approved service with approved parameters, and no non-approved
services. The approved service indicator is thus considered a global indicator and it is set after
successful completion of the pre-operational and conditional self-tests.

4.3.1.

Approved Services

Table  7  lists the  approved  services  in this module, the roles  that can request the  service,  the
algorithms   involved,   the   Sensitive   Security   Parameters   (SSPs)   involved   and   how   they   are
accessed, and the respective service indicator.

In the service tables, CO specifies the Crypto Officer role.

Service

Description

Table 7: Approved Services
Keys
and/or
SSPs

Approved
Security
Functions

Roles Access rights

to Keys
and/or SSPs

Digital
Signature
Verification

Verify
signature
operations

RSA
PKCSPSS
using SHA2-
384

RSA
public
key

CO

W, E

Indicator

Global indicator
readable through
‘dmidecode’
(upon successful
self-tests and the
module becomes
operational,
module only
offers approved
services)

Show
Version

Show
Status

On-
Demand
Self-Test

On-
Demand
Integrity
Test

Show the
version of the
module’s
components

Show status of
the module
state

Initiate on-
demand self-
tests by reset

Initiate the
integrity test
(pre-
operational
self-test)

Other Services

N/A

None

CO

N/A

None

N/A

N/A

None

CO

N/A

None

None

CO

N/A

None

SHA2-384

None

CO

N/A

Global indicator
readable through
‘dmidecode’
(upon successful
self-tests and the
module becomes
operational,
module only
offers approved
services)

Zeroize

Zeroize PSP in
volatile
memory

N/A

All SSPs

CO

Z

None

4.3.2.

Non-Approved Services

There are no non-approved services.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

13 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

5. Software/Firmware Security

5.1.

Integrity Techniques

The integrity of the firmware component of the module (“fips_firmware”) is verified by comparing
a   SHA2-384   digest   value   calculated   at   run   time   with   the   SHA2-384   digest   value   stored   in   the
module that was computed at build time.

5.2. On-Demand Integrity Test

Integrity tests are performed as part of the pre-operational self-tests. The integrity test may be
invoked on-demand in two ways: through the On-Demand Self-Test service, and through the On-
Demand Integrity Test service.

The   module   provides   the   On-Demand   Self-Test   service   to   perform   self-tests   on   demand.   This
service performs the same cryptographic algorithm tests executed during initialization, i.e., the
cryptographic   algorithm   self-tests   and   the   pre-operational   self-tests.   This   service   is   invoked   by
powering-off and reloading the SoC.

The On-Demand Integrity Test service can be used to perform only the on-demand pre-operational
self-tests.   This   service   is   invoked   by   calling   the   integrity   test   API   using   the   module’s   logical
interfaces. More details on the API are provided by the vendor in its developer’s manual.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

14 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

6. Operational Environment

6.1. Applicability

The   module   operates   in   a   non-modifiable   operational   environment   per   FIPS   140-3   level   1
specifications:   no   changes   are   possible   to   module   firmware   code,   nor   the   bootloader   firmware
code that interacts with the module.

6.2. Tested Operational Environments

Please see Section 2.4.

6.3. Policy and Requirements

The operational environment provides context separation for the memory and registers utilized by
the module. When these components are used by the module, no other process or sub-component
can access the information concurrently.

The bootloader acts as the sole operator of the module, thus there are no concurrent operators.

No   configuration   of   the   operational   environment   is   required   for   the   module   to   operate   in   an
approved mode. Therefore, there are no rules, settings, or restrictions to the configuration of the
operational environment.

The module does not have the capability of loading software or firmware from an external source.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

15 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

7. Physical Security

7.1. General

The embodiment of the module is a single chip consisting of production-grade components. The
coating is a standard sealing coat applied over the single chip.

The module provides no additional physical security techniques.

No actions are required to maintain the physical security of the module.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

16 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

8. Non-Invasive Security

The module claims no non-invasive security techniques.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

17 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

9. Sensitive Security Parameter Management

Table 8 summarizes the Sensitive Security Parameters (SSPs) that are used by the cryptographic
services implemented in the module in the approved services (Table 7).

Strength

150 bits

Key /
SSP
Name /
Type

RSA
public
key

Security
Function
and Cert.
Number

RSA
PKCSPSS
signature
verification
(A2884)

Table 8: SSPs
Generation Import
/ Export

Establish
ment

Storage

Zeroiz
ation

Use &
related
keys

N/A

Input in
plaintext
through
data
input
interface
(MD/EE).

No
output.

N/A

Volatile
memory

When
the
module
ends its
operati
on

RSA
signatu
re
verificat
ion

9.1. SSP Generation

The module does not generate SSPs.

9.2. SSP Establishment

The module does not implement automated SSP establishment.

9.3. SSP Entry/Output

The module only supports manual distribution, electronic entry of the RSA public key, which is
provided in plaintext by the bootloader operator via the data input interface.

No other SSPs are entered into the module. No SSPs are output from the module.

9.4. SSP Storage

SSPs are provided to the module by the calling process and are destroyed when released by the
respective functions.

The   module   does   not   perform   persistent   storage   of   SSPs;   keys   in   use   by   the   module   exist   in
volatile memory only.

9.5. SSP Zeroization

The module’s functions deallocates and zeroizes temporary SSP values in volatile memory used
during the function’s execution. The zeroization consists of writing zeroes to the memory location
used by the SSP before deallocating the area. The module does not overwrite the SSP with another
SSP.

The zeroization service for the SSP in volatile memory consists of powering off the SoC, which will
remove power from the volatile memory. This action will cause the value of the SSP in volatile
memory to be overwritten by random values. The successful act of powering off the SoC serves as
the implicit indicator of zeroization.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

18 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

9.6. Random Number Generation

The module does not implement random number generation.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

19 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

10. Self Tests

The   module   performs   pre-operational   self-tests   and   conditional   self-tests.  While   the   module   is
executing the self-tests, services are not available, and data output (via the data output interface)
is inhibited until the tests are successfully completed.

All the self-tests are listed in  Table 9, with the respective condition under which those tests are
performed.   The   firmware   integrity   test   is   performed   after   all   conditional   algorithm   self-tests
(CASTs) are performed.

Algorithm Parameters

Condition for Test

Type

Test

Table 9: Self-tests

SHA2-384 N/A

Firmware   integrity   test   on
firmware   component   at
initialization (after all CASTs)

Pre-Operational
Self-Test

Digest   verification
on
firmware
component

SHA2-384 N/A

Initialization

Conditional
Algorithm Self-Test

KAT SHA2-384

RSA

SHA2-384
and 4096-bit
key

Initialization

Conditional
Algorithm Self-Test

KAT
verification

signature

10.1. Pre-Operational Self-Tests

The module performs pre-operational tests automatically when the module is initialized. The pre-
operational   self-tests   ensure   that   the   module   is   not   corrupted   and   that   the   cryptographic
algorithms work as expected. The module transitions to the operational state only after the pre-
operational self-tests are passed successfully.

The types of pre-operational self-tests are described in the next sub-sections.

10.1.1. Firmware Integrity Test

The integrity of the firmware component of the module (“fips_firmware”) is verified by comparing
a  SHA2-384   digest   value   calculated   at   run   time   with   the   SHA2-384   digest   value   stored   in   the
module   that   was   computed   at   build   time.   If   the   comparison   verification   fails,   the   module
transitions to the error state (Section 10.3). The SHA2-384 algorithm goes through its conditional
algorithm self-test before the integrity test is performed (Table 9).

10.2. Conditional Tests

10.2.1. Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Tests

The   module   performs   self-tests   on   all   approved   cryptographic   algorithms   automatically   on
initialization, using the tests shown in  Table 9. Data output through the data output interface is
inhibited during the self-tests.

10.2.2. Periodic/On-Demand Self-Test

The module performs on-demand self-tests initiated by the operator, by powering off and powering
the SoC back on. The full suite of self-tests in Table 9 is then executed.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

20 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

The same procedure may be employed by the operator to perform periodic self-tests.

10.3. Error States

If the module fails any of the self-tests, the module enters the error state. In the error state, the
module outputs the error type through the status indicator and status output interface. In the error
state, the data output interface is inhibited, and the module accepts no more inputs or requests.
The module does not implement a control output interface.

Table 10  lists the error state and the status indicator (through the FW_STATUS variable) values
that explains the error that has occurred.

Error State

Error Condition

Status Indicator (FW_STATUS)

Table 10: Error States

Error

SHA2-384 self-test error

Error code AA0000FB

RSA self-test error

Error code AA0000FC

Integrity test error

Error code AA0000FD

To recover from the error state (clearing the error condition), the module shall be restarted or
reset.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

21 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

11. Life-Cycle Assurance

11.1. Delivery and Operation

11.1.1. Secure Installation, Initialization, Start-up, and Operation

The procedures herein described are directed at OEMs for producing and configuring their BIOS so
that the FIPS module is properly installed to operate as the validated module in conformance with
the rules in this Security Policy document.

Once properly installed and enabled, no configuration is necessary for the module to operate and
remain in the approved mode, as it is the only mode of operation of the module.

To enable the FIPS capability

1. Reserve at least 16KiB for the AMD Secure Processor level 1 directory, as the FIPS module

requires additional 8KiB of ROM space for the AMD Secure Processor L1 Bootloader.

2. Set BIT 32 of the AMD Secure Processor soft fuse chain (AMD Secure Processor entry 0xB)

to enable FIPS capability.

a. The   BIT32   in   AMD   Secure   Processor   entry   0xB   is   defined   as   FIPS   capability
enablement. If 0, the FIPS capability is OFF; if 1, the FIPS capability is ON (i.e., the
module is properly installed as the validated module described in this document).

Please note that above configuration is only applicable for OEMs integrating the module in as part
of the production process. Once the module is distributed to end users, no further installation is
required.   Also,   it   is   not   possible   to   disable   the   FIPS   capability   once   the   SoC   has   left   the   OEM
production process.

To verify whether FIPS capability is enabled

1. Boot the system into a Linux shell.

2.

If the system fails to boot: one of the self-tests failed, and the module is stuck in the error
state.

3. Otherwise, use  the ‘dmidecode’ tool with type 11 as the root user to fetch FIPS  status:

‘sudo dmidecode -t 11’:

a.

b.

If it shows “FipsStatus: PASS”, the FIPS capable module is installed and has passed
all required self-tests.

If   it   shows   “FipsStatus:   FAIL”   or   “FipsStatus:”   the   module   (described   in   this
document) is disabled or not installed correctly.

The screenshot in Figure 3 shows the usage of dmidecode. The output indicates that FIPS module
is   installed   and   thus   will   operate   as   the   FIPS   validated   module   according   to   the   rules   in   this
Security   Policy   document.   Note   that   the   module   version   is   shown   here   as   “FipsId”.   The
“CcpVersion” string is unrelated to the FIPS requirements and should be disregarded.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

22 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Figure 3: dmidecode indicating that FIPS module is installed.

The   screenshots   in  Figure   4  and  Figure   5  again   shows   the   usage   of   dmidecode.   The   output
demonstrates that FIPS module is not installed. In this condition, the module does not operate in
conformance with this Security Policy document. Note that “FipsStatus” will either show “FAIL” or
a blank string to indicate FIPS module is not installed. There is no functional difference between
these two outputs. Finally, note that “FipsId” is also blank in this case.

Figure 4: dmidecode indicating that FIPS module is not installed (first case).

Figure 5: dmidecode indicating that FIPS module is not installed (second case).

11.1.2. Maintenance Requirements

There are no maintenance requirements.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

23 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

11.1.3. End of Life

The process for performing “End of Life” occurs at the chronological point of 10 years starting from
manufacturing date of the module.

As stated in Section 9.4, the module does not possess persistent storage of SSPs. The SSP value
only   exists   in   volatile   memory   and   that   value   vanishes   when   the   SoC   is   powered   off.   The
procedure for secure sanitization of the module at the end of life is simply to power it off, which is
the action of zeroization of the SSPs (Section 9.5) . As a result of this sanitization via power-off, the
SSP is removed from the module, so that the module may either be distributed to other operators
or disposed.

11.2. Administrator Guidance

All   the   functions,   ports   and   logical   interfaces   described   in   this   document   are   available   to   the
Crypto Officer. The module only provides approved functions, and as such there are no special
procedures to administer the approved mode of operation.

11.3. Non-Administrator Guidance

The module implements only the Crypto Officer. There are no requirements for non-administrator
operators.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

24 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

12. Mitigation of Other Attacks

The module does not implement security mechanisms to mitigate other attacks.

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

25 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

A. Glossary and Abbreviations

AES

CAVP

CMVP

DRBG

FIPS

KAT

NIST

OS

PAA

Advanced Encryption Standard

Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program

Cryptographic Module Validation Program

Deterministic Random Bit Generator

Federal Information Processing Standards

Known Answer Test

National Institute of Science and Technology

Operating System

Processor Algorithm Acceleration

PKCSPSS

Public-Key Cryptography Standards Probabilistic Signature Scheme

PSP

RSA

SHA

SHS

Public Security Parameter

Rivest, Shamir, Addleman

Secure Hash Algorithm

Secure Hash Standard

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

26 of 27

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Genoa")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

B. References

Implementation Guidance for FIPS 140-3 and the Cryptographic Module Validation Program. (2022,
March   14).  Implementation   Guidance   for   FIPS   140-3   and   the   Cryptographic   Module
from
Validation
https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/
documents/fips 140-3/FIPS 140-3 IG.pdf

Retrieved

Program.

2021,

03

8,

National Institute of Standards Technology. (2019, March). FIPS PUB 140-3. Security Requirements
for   Cryptographic   Modules.  FIPS   PUB   140-3.   Security   Requirements   for   Cryptographic
Modules. Retrieved from https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.140-3.pdf

FIPS   PUB   180-4.   Secure   Hash   Standard   (SHS).   (2012,   March).  FIPS   PUB   180-4.   Secure   Hash
Standard   (SHS).   Gaithersburg,   MD   20899-8900:   National   Institute   of   Standards   &
Technology. Retrieved from http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips/fips180-4/fips-180-4.pdf

FIPS PUB 186-4. Digital Signature Standard (DSS). (2013, July).  FIPS PUB 186-4. Digital Signature
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-4.

(DSS).

Standard
doi:https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-4

ISO/IEC.   (2012,   August).   ISO/IEC   19790:2012   Information   technology   —   Security   techniques   —
Security   requirements   for   cryptographic   modules.
 ISO/IEC   19790:2012   Information
technology   —   Security   techniques   —   Security   requirements   for   cryptographic   modules.
Retrieved from https://www.iso.org/standard/52906.html

ISO/IEC. (2017, March). ISO/IEC 24759:2017 Information technology — Security techniques — Test
requirements   for   cryptographic   modules.  ISO/IEC   24759:2017   Information   technology   —
Security   techniques   —   Test   requirements   for   cryptographic   modules.   Retrieved   from
https://www.iso.org/standard/72515.html

© 2025 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

27 of 27

