Dynatrace LLC
Dynatrace Cryptographic Module
Software Version: 1.1

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

FIPS Security Level: 1
Document Version: 0.9

Prepared for:

Prepared by:

Dynatrace LLC
1601 Trapelo Road, Suite 116
Waltham, MA 02451
United States of America

Corsec Security, Inc.
12600 Fair Lakes Circle, Suite 210
Fairfax, VA 22033
United States of America

Phone: +1 781 530 1000
www.dynatrace.com

Phone: +1 703 267 6050
www.corsec.com

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

Abstract

This is a non-proprietary Cryptographic Module Security Policy for the Dynatrace Cryptographic Module (software
version:  1.1)  from  Dynatrace  LLC  (Dynatrace).  This  Security Policy  describes  how  the  Dynatrace  Cryptographic
Module meets the security requirements of Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) Publication 140-3,
which  details  the  U.S.  and  Canadian  government  requirements  for  cryptographic  modules.  More  information
about  the  FIPS  140-3  standard  and  validation  program  is  available  on  the  Cryptographic  Module  Validation
Program (CMVP) website, which is maintained by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and
the Canadian Centre for Cyber Security (CCCS).

This document also describes how to run the module in a secure Approved mode of operation. This policy was
prepared  as  part  of  the  Level  1  FIPS  140-3  validation  of  the  module.  The  Dynatrace  Cryptographic  Module  is
referred to in this document as Dynatrace Cryptographic Module or the module.

References

This document deals only with operations and capabilities of the module in the technical terms of a FIPS 140-3
cryptographic module security policy. More information is available on the module from the following sources:

•  The  Dynatrace  website  (www.dynatrace.com)  contains  information  on  the  full  line  of  products  from

Dynatrace.

•  The search page on the CMVP website (https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/cryptographic-module-validation-
program/Validated-Modules/Search)  can  be  used  to  locate  and obtain  vendor  contact  information  for
technical or sales-related questions about the module.

Document Organization

ISO/IEC  19790  Annex  B  uses  the  same  section  naming  convention  as  ISO/IEC  19790  section  7  -  Security
requirements. For example, Annex B section B.2.1 is named “General” and B.2.2 is named “Cryptographic module
specification,” which is the same as ISO/IEC 19790 section 7.1 and section 7.2, respectively. Therefore, the format
of this Security Policy is presented in the same order as indicated in Annex B, starting with “General” and ending
with “Mitigation of other attacks.” If sections are not applicable, they have been marked as such in this document.

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 2 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

Table of Contents

1.  General..................................................................................................................................................6

2.

3.

4.

Cryptographic Module Specification .......................................................................................................7
Operational Environments ......................................................................................................................7
2.1
Algorithm Implementations ....................................................................................................................9
2.2
2.3
Cryptographic Boundary ...................................................................................................................... 15
2.4  Modes of Operation ............................................................................................................................. 17

Cryptographic Module Interfaces ......................................................................................................... 18

Roles, Services, and Authentication ...................................................................................................... 19
Authorized Roles .................................................................................................................................. 19
4.1
Authentication Methods ...................................................................................................................... 20
4.2
Services ................................................................................................................................................ 20
4.3

5.

Software/Firmware Security ................................................................................................................ 24

6.  Operational Environment ..................................................................................................................... 25

7.

Physical Security .................................................................................................................................. 26

8.  Non-Invasive Security .......................................................................................................................... 27

9.

Sensitive Security Parameter Management .......................................................................................... 28
Keys and Other SSPs ............................................................................................................................ 28
9.1
DRBGs................................................................................................................................................... 31
9.2
SSP Storage Techniques ....................................................................................................................... 31
9.3
SSP Zeroization Methods ..................................................................................................................... 32
9.4
RBG Entropy Sources ........................................................................................................................... 32
9.5

10.  Self-Tests ............................................................................................................................................. 33
10.1  Pre-Operational Self-Tests ................................................................................................................... 33
10.2  Conditional Self-Tests .......................................................................................................................... 33
10.3  On-Demand Self-Testing ...................................................................................................................... 34
10.4  Self-Test Failure Handling .................................................................................................................... 34

11.  Life-Cycle Assurance ............................................................................................................................. 35
11.1  Secure Installation ............................................................................................................................... 35
11.2
Initialization ......................................................................................................................................... 35
11.3  Startup ................................................................................................................................................. 35
11.4  Administrator Guidance ....................................................................................................................... 35
11.5  Non-Administrator Guidance ............................................................................................................... 36
11.6  Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures .............................................................................................. 37
11.6.1  Applicable CVEs ....................................................................................................................... 37
11.6.2  CVE Mitigation Plan ................................................................................................................ 37

12.  Mitigation of Other Attacks .................................................................................................................. 38

Appendix A.

Approved Service Indicators ........................................................................................... 39

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 3 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

Appendix B.

Acronyms and Abbreviations .......................................................................................... 42

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 4 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

List of Tables

Table 1 – Security Level per FIPS 140-3 Section .........................................................................................................6
Table 2 – Tested Operational Environments ..............................................................................................................7
Table 3 – Vendor-Affirmed Operational Environments .............................................................................................7
Table 4 – Approved Algorithms ..................................................................................................................................9
Table 5 – Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation .............................................. 14
Table 6 – Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation ....................................... 14
Table 7 – Ports and Interfaces ................................................................................................................................. 18
Table 8 – Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output .......................................................................................... 19
Table 9 – Approved Services ................................................................................................................................... 21
Table 10 – Non-Approved Services ......................................................................................................................... 23
Table 11 – Keys ........................................................................................................................................................ 28
Table 13 – Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification ............................................................ 32
Table 12 – CVEs ....................................................................................................................................................... 37
Table 14 – Acronyms and Abbreviations ................................................................................................................. 42

List of Figures

Figure 1 – GPC Block Diagram ................................................................................................................................. 16
Figure 2 – Module Block Diagram (with Cryptographic Boundaries) ...................................................................... 17

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 5 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

1.  General

intelligence  to  simplify  cloud  complexity  and  accelerate  digital
Dynatrace  LLC  provides  software
transformation. With  automatic and  intelligent observability  at  scale,  their  all-in-one  platform  delivers  precise
answers about the performance and security of applications, the underlying infrastructure, and the experience of
all  users  to enable  organizations  to  innovate  faster, collaborate more  efficiently,  and  deliver more value  with
dramatically less effort.

Dynatrace  is  a  software  intelligence  platform.  The  system  provides  data  on  the  performance  of  applications,
underlying  infrastructure, and  end  user  experiences.  Dynatrace  consists of OneAgent,  ActiveGate,  and  Cluster
software components. Dynatrace OneAgent software is installed on hosts to automatically discover and collect
monitoring  data  from  an  information  technology  environment.  Important  metrics  can  be  forwarded  to  a
Dynatrace Cluster either directly or via a Dynatrace ActiveGate.

The  Dynatrace  Cryptographic  Module  1.1  is  a  cryptographic  library  embedded  in  Dynatrace’s  OneAgent  and
ActiveGate  application  software.  The  Dynatrace  Cryptographic  Module  v1.1  supplies  the  cryptographic
functionality  for  encryption  and  decryption,  digital  signature  functions,  hashing,  message  authentication,  key
establishment, and random number generation in support of general data protection functionality and secure
communications protocols, including TLS1 1.2/1.3.

The Dynatrace Cryptographic Module is validated at the FIPS 140-3 section levels shown in Table 1.

Table 1 – Security Level per FIPS 140-3 Section

ISO/IEC 24579 Section 6.
[Number Below]

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security Level

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

General

Cryptographic Module Specification

Cryptographic Module Interfaces

Roles, Services, and Authentication

Software/Firmware Security

Operational Environment

Physical Security

Non-Invasive Security

Sensitive Security Parameter Management

Self-tests

Life-Cycle Assurance

Mitigation of Other Attacks

1

1

1

1

1

1

N/A

N/A

1

1

1

N/A

The module has an overall security level of 1.

1 TLS – Transport Layer Security

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 6 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

2.  Cryptographic Module Specification

The Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1 is a software module with a multi-chip standalone embodiment. The
module is designed to operate within a modifiable operational environment.

Operational Environments

2.1
The module was tested and found to be compliant with FIPS 140-3 requirements on the environment listed in
Table 2.

Table 2 – Tested Operational Environments

#

1

2

Operating System

Hardware Platform

Processor

PAA/Acceleration

Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8.2

Dell PowerEdge R440

Intel® Xeon Silver 4214R   With PAA

Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8.2

Dell PowerEdge R440

Intel® Xeon Silver 4214R   Without PAA

The module is designed to utilize the AES-NI2 extended instruction set when available on the host platform’s CPU
for processor algorithm acceleration (PAA) of its AES implementation.

The vendor affirms the module’s continued validation compliance when operating on the environments listed in
Table 3.

Table 3 – Vendor-Affirmed Operational Environments

Operating System

Alpine Linux (musl libc) for containers
3.4-3.13

Processor

x86-64

Amazon Linux 2

ARM64 (AArch64), x86-64

Amazon Linux AMI 2014.03 - 2018.03

x86-64

Bottlerocket 1.x

CentOS 7.x, 8.x

CentOS Stream 8

Debian 8, 9, 10

EulerOS 2,3, 2.5, 2.8

EulerOS 2.8

Fedora 32-24

Google Container-Optimized OS
81 LTS, 85 LTS, 89 LTS

x86-64

ARM64 (AArch64), x86-64, ppc64le

ARM64 (AArch64), ppc64le, x86-64

x86-64

x86-64

ARM64 (AArch64)

x86-64

x86-64

#

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

openSUSE 15.2, 15.3

ppc64le, x86-64

2 AES-NI – Advanced Encryption Algorithm New Instructions

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 7 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

#

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

Operating System

Oracle Linux 6.x, 7.x, 8.x

Processor

x86-64

Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.9+, 7.x, 8.x

s390x

Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.x

x86-64

Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.x, 8.x

ppc64le, x86-64

Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS
4.5, 4.6, 4.7

x86-64

SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 11.4

x86-64

SUSE Linux Enterprise Server
12.1+, 15.x

s390x

SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 15.3

ppc64le, x86-64

SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 15.x

ARM64 (AArch64)

Ubuntu 14.04 LTS

x86-64

Ubuntu 16.04 LTS, 18.04 LTS

ppc64le, x86-64

Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

ARM64 (AArch64), s390x

Ubuntu 20.04 LTS, 20.10, 21.04

ARM64
(AArch64), ppc64le, s390x, x86-64

IBM AIX 6.1 TL9 SP9+, 7.1 TL5,
7.2 TL3, 7.2 TL4, 7.2 TL5

POWER8 64bit-only, POWER9 64bit-
only

27

Solaris 10 1/13+, 11.x

SPARC, x86-64, x86

28  Windows Desktop

x86-64

8.1, 20H2, 21H1, 1507, 1607,
1809, 1909, 2004

29  Windows Server

x86-64

20H2, 1909, 2004, 2008 R2, 2012,
2012 R2, 2016, 2019

30  Windows Server - Nano

All versions supported

31

32

IBM z/OS 2.3, 2.4, 2.5

DB2 11, 12

33  MQ 8.0, 9.0, 9.1

34

DL/I

x86-64

-

-

-

-

Please refer to https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/technology-support/ for details on the vendor affirmed
OEs.

The  cryptographic module maintains validation compliance  when  operating on any general-purpose  computer
(GPC) provided that the GPC uses any single-user operating system/mode specified on the validation certificate,
or another compatible single-user operating system. The CMVP makes no statement as to the correct operation
of the module or the security strengths of the generated keys when ported to an operational environment not
listed on the validation certificate.

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 8 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

Algorithm Implementations

2.2
The module implements cryptographic algorithms in the following providers:

•  Dynatrace Cryptographic Module (libcrypto) version 1.1 (Cert. A3358)
•  Dynatrace Cryptographic Module (libssl) version 1.1 (Cert. A3359)

Validation certificates for each Approved security function are listed in Table 4.

Table 4 – Approved Algorithms

CAVP Cert3  Algorithm and Standard

Mode / Method

Description / Key Size(s) /
Key Strengths

Use / Function

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module (libcrypto)

A3358

A3358

A3358

A3358

A3358

A3358

A3358

A3358

A3358

AES-CBC4
FIPS PUB5 197
NIST SP 800-38A

AES-CCM
NIST SP 800-38C

AES-CFB16
FIPS PUB7 197
NIST SP 800-38A

AES-CFB128
FIPS PUB8 197
NIST SP 800-38A

AES-CFB8
FIPS PUB9 197
NIST SP 800-38A

AES-CMAC10
NIST SP 800-38B

AES-CTR11
FIPS PUB12 197
NIST SP 800-38A

AES-ECB13
FIPS PUB14 197
NIST SP 800-38A

AES-GCM15
NIST SP 80- 38D

CBC

CCM

CFB1

128, 192, 256

Encryption/Decryption

128, 192, 256

Encryption/Decryption

128, 192, 256

Encryption/Decryption

CFB128

128, 192, 256

Encryption/Decryption

CFB8

128, 192, 256

Encryption/Decryption

CMAC

128, 192, 256

MAC Generation/Verification

CTR

ECB

128, 192, 256

Encryption/Decryption

128, 192, 256

Encryption/Decryption

GCM (internal IV)

128, 192, 256

Encryption/Decryption

3 This table includes vendor-affirmed algorithms that are approved but CAVP testing is not yet available.
4 CBC – Cipher Block Chaining
5 PUB – Publication
6 CFB – Cipher Feedback
7 PUB – Publication
8 PUB – Publication
9 PUB – Publication
10 CMAC – Cipher-Based Message Authentication Code
11 CTR – Counter
12 PUB – Publication
13 ECB – Electronic Code Book
14 PUB – Publication
15 GCM – Galois Counter Mode

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 9 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

CAVP Cert3  Algorithm and Standard

Mode / Method

Description / Key Size(s) /
Key Strengths

Use / Function

AES-GMAC16
NIST SP 800-38D

AES-KW17
NIST SP 800-38F

AES-KWP18
NIST SP 800-38F

AES-OFB19
FIPS PUB20 197
NIST SP 800-38A

Counter DRBG21
NIST SP 800-90Arev1

A3358

A3358

A3358

A3358

A3358

A3358

A3358

DSA22 KeyGen (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

DSA KeyGen

DSA PQGGen (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

DSA PQGGen

A3358

DSA PQGVer (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

DSA PQGVer

A3358

DSA SigGen (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

DSA SigGen

A3358

DSA SigVer (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

DSA SigVer

A3358

ECDSA23 KeyGen (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

A3358

ECDSA KeyVer (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

ECDSA KeyGen.
Secret generation
mode: Testing
candidates

ECDSA KeyVer

GMAC

128, 192, 256

Encryption/Decryption

KW

KWP

OFB

128, 192, 256

Encryption/Decryption

128, 192, 256

Encryption/Decryption

128, 192, 256

Encryption/Decryption

Counter-based

256-bit AES-CTR

Deterministic Random Bit
Generation

Key Pair Generation

Domain Parameter Generation

Domain Parameter Verification

Digital Signature Generation

2048/224, 2048/256,
3072/256

2048/224, 2048/256,
3072/256 (SHA2-224,
SHA2-256, SHA2-384,
SHA2-512)

2048/224, 2048/256,
3072/256 (SHA2-224,
SHA2-256, SHA2-384,
SHA2-512)

2048/224, 2048/256,
3072/256 (SHA2-224,
SHA2-256, SHA2-384,
SHA2-512)

1024/160, 2048/224,
2048/256, 3072/256 (SHA-
1, SHA2-224, SHA2-256,
SHA2-384, SHA2-512)

B-233, B-283, B-409, B-571,
K-233, K-283, K-409, K-571,
P-224, P-256, P-384, P-521

Digital Signature Verification

1024-bit keys are for legacy use
only.

Key Pair Generation

B-163, B-233, B-283, B-409,
B-571, K-163, K-233, K-283,
K-409, K-571, P-192, P-224,
P-256, P-384, P-521

Public Key Validation

Curves B-163, K-163, and P-192 are
for legacy use only.

16 GMAC – Galois Message Authentication Code
17 KW – Key Wrap
18 KWP – Key Wrap with Padding
19 OFB – Output Feedback
20 PUB – Publication
21 DRBG – Deterministic Random Bit Generator
22 DSA – Digital Signature Algorithm
23 ECDSA – Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 10 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

CAVP Cert3  Algorithm and Standard

Mode / Method

Description / Key Size(s) /
Key Strengths

Use / Function

B-233, B-283, B-409, B-571,
K-233, K-283, K-409, K-571,
P-224, P-256, P-384, P-521
SHA2-224, SHA2-256,
SHA2-384, SHA2-512 ()

B-163, B-233, B-283, B-409,
B-571, K-163, K-233, K-283,
K-409, K-571, P-192, P-224,
P-256, P-384, P-521 (SHA-1,
SHA2-224, SHA2-256,
SHA2-384, SHA2-512)

MAC: 160
Key Length: 112-524288
Increment 8

MAC: 224
Key Length: 112-524288
Increment 8

MAC: 256
Key Length: 112-524288
Increment 8

MAC: 384
Key Length: 112-524288
Increment 8

MAC: 512
Key Length: 112-524288
Increment 8

Digital Signature Generation

Digital Signature Verification

Curves B-163, K-163, and P-192 are
for legacy use only.

Message Authentication

Message Authentication

Message Authentication

Message Authentication

Message Authentication

B-233, B-283, B-409, B-571,
K-233, K-283, K-409, K-571,
P-224, P-256, P-384, P-521

2048/224 (FB), 2048/256
(FC)

Shared Secret Computation

Shared Secret Computation

A3358

ECDSA SigGen (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

ECDSA SigGen

A3358

ECDSA SigVer (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

ECDSA SigVer

A3358

HMAC SHA-1
FIPS PUB 198-1

A3358

HMAC SHA2-224
FIPS PUB 198-1

A3358

HMAC SHA2-256
FIPS PUB 198-1

A3358

HMAC SHA2-384
FIPS PUB 198-1

A3358

HMAC SHA2-512
FIPS PUB 198-1

SHA-1

SHA2-224

SHA2-256

SHA2-384

SHA2-512

A3358

KAS-ECC-SSC24
NIST SP 800-56Arev3

ephemeralUnified

dhEphem

KAS-FFC-SSC25
NIST SP 800-56Arev3

KDF TLS
CVL26
NIST SP 800-135rev1

A3358

A3358

A3358

A3358

KDF (TLS v1.0/1.1,
v1.2)

SHA2-256, SHA2-384,
SHA2-512

Key Derivation

No part of the TLS protocol, other
than the KDF, has been tested by
the CAVP and CMVP.

RSA27 KeyGen (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

Key generation mode:
B.3.3

2048, 3072, 4096

Key Pair Generation

RSA SigGen (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

X9.31

PKCS#1 v1.5

2048, 3072, 4096 (SHA2-
256, SHA2-384, SHA2-512)

2048, 3072, 4096 (SHA2-
224, SHA2-256, SHA2-384,
SHA2-512)

Digital Signature Generation

Digital Signature Generation

24 KAS-ECC-SSC – Key Agreement Scheme – Elliptic Curve Cryptography - Shared Secret Computation
25 KAS-FFC-SSC – Key Agreement Scheme - Finite Field Cryptography - Shared Secret Computation
26 CVL – Component Validation List
27 RSA – Rivest Shamir Adleman

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 11 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

CAVP Cert3  Algorithm and Standard

Mode / Method

Description / Key Size(s) /
Key Strengths

Use / Function

PSS28

X9.31

PKCS#1 v1.5

PSS29

SHA-1

SHA2-224

SHA2-256

SHA2-384

SHA2-512

2048, 3072, 4096 (SHA2-
224, SHA2-256, SHA2-384,
SHA2-512)

1024, 2048, 3072, 4096
(SHA-1, SHA2-256, SHA2-
384, SHA2-512)

1024, 2048, 3072, 4096
(SHA-1, SHA2-224, SHA2-
256, SHA2-384, SHA2-512)

1024, 2048, 3072, 4096
(SHA-1, SHA2-224, SHA2-
256, SHA2-384, SHA2-512)

Digital Signature Generation

Digital Signature Verification

1024-bit keys are for legacy use
only.

Digital Signature Verification

1024-bit keys are for legacy use
only.

Digital Signature Verification

1024-bit keys are for legacy use
only.

Message Length:
0-65528 Increment 8

Message Length:
0-65528 Increment 8

Message Length:
0-65528 Increment 8

Message Length:
0-65528 Increment 8

Message Length:
0-65528 Increment 8

Message Digest

Message Digest

Message Digest

Message Digest

Message Digest

KDF (TLS v1.3)

SHA2-256, SHA2-384

Key Derivation

A3358

RSA SigVer (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

A3358

SHA-1
FIPS PUB 180-4

SHA2-224
FIPS PUB 180-4

SHA2-256
FIPS PUB 180-4

SHA2-384
FIPS PUB 180-4

SHA2-512
FIPS PUB 180-4

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module (libssl)

A3359

TLS v1.3 KDF
CVL
NIST SP 800-135rev1
RFC 8446

No part of the TLS protocol, other
than the KDF, has been tested by
the CAVP and CMVP.

Key Agreement

Key Agreement

B-233, B-283, B-409, B-571,
K-233, K-283, K-409, K-571,
P-224, P-256, P-384, P-521
curves providing between
112 and 256 bits of
encryption strength

B-233, B-283, B-409, B-571,
K-233, K-283, K-409, K-571,
P-224, P-256, P-384, P-521
curves providing between
112 and 256 bits of
encryption strength

Security Function Implementations (SFIs)

KAS-ECC-SSC
A3358

KAS30
NIST SP 800-56Arev3
NIST SP 800-135rev1

NIST SP 800-56Arev3.
KAS-ECC per IG D.F
Scenario 2 path (2)

TLS KDF
A3358

KAS-ECC-SSC
A3358

TLS v1.3 KDF
A3359

KAS
NIST SP 800-56Arev3
NIST SP 800-135rev1
RFC 8446

28 PSS – Probabilistic Signature Scheme
29 PSS – Probabilistic Signature Scheme
30 KAS – Key Agreement Scheme

NIST SP 800-56Arev3.
KAS-ECC per IG D.F
Scenario 2 path (2)

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 12 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

CAVP Cert3  Algorithm and Standard

Mode / Method

KAS-FFC-SSC
A3358

KAS
NIST SP 800-56Arev3
NIST SP 800-135rev1

NIST SP 800-56Arev3.
KAS-FFC per IG D.F
Scenario 2 path (2)

Description / Key Size(s) /
Key Strengths

Use / Function

2048-bit key providing 112
bits of encryption strength

Key Agreement

TLS KDF
A3358

KAS-FFC-SSC
A3358

TLS v1.3 KDF
A3359

KAS
NIST SP 800-56Arev3
NIST SP 800-135rev1
RFC 8446

AES-CMAC
A3358

KTS
NIST SP 800-38B

AES-CCM
A3358

KTS31
NIST SP 800-38C

AES-GCM
A3358

KTS
NIST SP 800-38D

AES-GMAC
A3358

KTS
NIST SP 800-38D

AES-KW
A3358

KTS
NIST SP 800-38F

AES-KWP
A3358

KTS
NIST SP 800-38F

Vendor Affirmed

Vendor
Affirmed

CKG32
NIST SP 800-133rev2

NIST SP 800-56Arev3.
KAS-FFC per IG D.F
Scenario 2 path (2)

2048-bit key providing 112
bits of encryption strength

Key Agreement

NIST SP 800-38B and
NIST SP 800-38F. KTS
(key wrapping and
unwrapping) per IG
D.G.

NIST SP 800-38C and
NIST SP 800-38F. KTS
(key wrapping and
unwrapping) per IG
D.G.

NIST SP 800-38D and
NIST SP 800-38F. KTS
(key wrapping and
unwrapping) per IG
D.G.

NIST SP 800-38D and
NIST SP 800-38F. KTS
(key wrapping and
unwrapping) per IG
D.G.

NIST SP 800-38F. KTS
(key wrapping and
unwrapping)

NIST SP 800-38F. KTS
(key wrapping and
unwrapping)

128, 192, and 256-bit keys
provide between 128 and
256 bits of encryption
strength

128, 192, and 256-bit keys
provide between 128 and
256 bits of encryption
strength

128, 192, and 256-bit keys
provide between 128 and
256 bits of encryption
strength

128, 192, and 256-bit keys
provide between 128 and
256 bits of encryption
strength

128, 192, and 256-bit keys
provide between 128 and
256 bits of encryption
strength

128, 192, and 256-bit keys
provide between 128 and
256 bits of encryption
strength

Key Wrap/Unwrap

Key Wrap/Unwrap

Key Wrap/Unwrap

Key Wrap/Unwrap

Key Wrap/Unwrap

Key Wrap/Unwrap

-

-

Cryptographic Key Generation

NOTE: The module offers algorithms in the Approved mode of operation that provide less than 112 bits of security strength. These
algorithms are Approved for legacy use only (refer to NIST SP 800-131Arev2 for additional details).

31 KTS – Key Transport Scheme
32 CKG – Cryptographic Key Generation

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 13 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

The vendor affirms the following cryptographic security methods:

•  Cryptographic key generation – In compliance with sections 4 and 5.1 of NIST SP 800-133rev2, the module
uses its Approved DRBG to generate random values and seeds used for asymmetric key generation. The
generated seed is an unmodified output from the DRBG. The cryptographic module invokes a GET function
to  obtain  entropy  for  random  number  generation  (the  module  requests  256  bits  of  entropy  from  the
calling application per request), and then passively receives entropy from the  calling application while
having no knowledge of the entropy source and exercising no control over the amount or the quality of
the obtained entropy.

The calling application and its entropy sources are located within the operational environment inside the
module’s physical perimeter but outside the cryptographic boundary. Thus, there is no assurance of the
minimum strength of the generated SSPs (e.g., keys).

The module implements the non-Approved but allowed algorithms shown in Table 5 below.

Table 5 – Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation

Algorithm

Caveat

Use / Function

AES

Cert. #A3358, Key Unwrapping (allowed per FIPS
140-3 IG D.G)

Symmetric key unwrapping (using any
Approved unauthenticated mode)

For legacy use only.

The module does not offer non-Approved algorithms allowed for use in the Approved mode of operation with no
security claimed on their use.

The module employs the non-Approved algorithms shown in Table 6 below. These algorithms shall not be used in
the module’s Approved mode of operation.

Table 6 – Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation

Algorithm

Use / Function

AES-GCM (non-approved with external IV)

Encryption/Decryption

AES-OCB33

AES-XTS

Authenticated Encryption/Decryption

Encryption/Decryption

ANSI X9.31 RNG (with 128-bit AES core)

Random Number Generation

ARIA

Blake2

Blowfish

CAST, CAST5

Camellia

ChaCha20

33 OCB – Offset Codebook

Encryption/Decryption

Encryption/Decryption

Encryption/Decryption

Encryption/Decryption

Encryption/Decryption

Encryption/Decryption

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 14 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

Algorithm

DES

Use / Function

Encryption/Decryption

DH (non-approved with key sizes below 2048 bits)

Key Agreement

DSA (non-approved with key sizes below the
minimums Approved for the Approved mode)

Key Pair Generation; Digital Signature Generation; Digital
Signature Verification

DSA, ECDSA, and RSA (non-approved when used with
SHA-1 outside the TLS protocol)

Digital Signature Generation

ECDH (non-approved with curves P-192, K-163, B-163,
and non-NIST curves)

Key Agreement

ECDSA (non-approved with curves P-192, K-163, B-
163, and non-NIST curves)

Key Pair Generation; Digital Signature Generation; Digital
Signature Verification

EdDSA34

HKDF35

IDEA

Key Pair Generation; Digital Signature Generation; Digital
Signature Verification

Key Derivation

Encryption/Decryption

KDF (non-approved when using TLS 1.0/1.1)

Key Derivation

MD2, MD4, MD5

PBKDF2

Poly1305

RC236, RC4, RC5

RIPEMD

RMD160

Message Digest

Password-Based Key Derivation

Message Authentication Code

Encryption/Decryption

Message Digest

Message Digest

RSA (non-approved with non-approved/untested key
sizes, and functions)

Key Pair Generation; Digital Signature Generation; Digital
Signature Verification; Key Transport

SEED

SHA3

SM2, SM3, SM3

Triple DES (non-approved)

Encryption/Decryption

Message Digest

Message Digest

Encryption/Decryption; MAC Generation/Verification; Key
Wrapping/Unwrapping

Whirlpool

Message Digest

Cryptographic Boundary

2.3
As  a  software  cryptographic  module,  the  module  has  no  physical  components.  The  physical  perimeter  of  the
cryptographic module is defined by each host device on which the module is installed. Figure 1 below illustrates
a block diagram of a typical GPC and the module’s physical perimeter.

34 EdDSA – Edwards-curve Digital Signature Algorithm
35 HKDF – Hash Message Authentication Code-Based Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation Function
36 RC – Rivest Cipher

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 15 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

Figure 1 – GPC Block Diagram

The  module’s  cryptographic  boundary  consists  of  all  functionalities  contained  within  the  module’s  compiled
source code and comprises the following components:

libcrypto (cryptographic primitives library file)
libssl (TLS protocol library file)

•
•
•  HMAC  digest  file  for  libcrypto  and  libssl  integrity  checks  (digest  file  name  dependent  on  file  name  of

library/executable to which the libcrypto and libssl components are statically linked)

The  cryptographic  boundary  is  the  contiguous  perimeter  that  surrounds  all  memory-mapped  functionality
provided by the module when loaded and stored in the host device’s memory. The module is entirely contained
within the physical perimeter.

Figure 2 shows the logical block diagram of the module executing in memory and its interactions with surrounding
software components, as well as the module’s physical perimeter and cryptographic boundary.

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 16 of 44

PowerInterfaceI/O HubNetworkInterfaceClock GeneratorCPURAMCacheHDDHardwareManagementExternalPower SupplySCSI/SATAControllerPCI/PCIeSlotsDVDUSBBIOSPCI/PCIeSlotsGraphics ControllerBIOS – Basic Input/Output SystemCPU – Central Processing UnitSATA – Serial Advanced Technology AttachmentSCSI – Small Computer System InterfacePCI – Peripheral Component InterconnectLED – Light Emitting DiodePCIe – PCI expressHDD – Hard Disk DriveDVD – Digital Video DiscUSB – Universal Serial BusRAM – Random Access MemoryLCD – Liquid Crystal DisplayKEY:AudioLEDs/LCDSerial

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

Figure 2 – Module Block Diagram (with Cryptographic Boundaries)

2.4  Modes of Operation
The  module  supports  two  modes  of  operation:  Approved  and  Non-Approved.  The  module  operates  in  the
Approved mode when all pre-operational self-tests have completed successfully, and only Approved services are
invoked. Table 4 and Table 5 list the Approved and allowed algorithms, while Table 9 provides descriptions of the
Approved services.

The module alternates on a service-by-service basis between Approved and non-Approved modes of operation.
The module will switch to the non-Approved mode upon execution of a non-Approved service. The module will
switch  back  to  the  Approved  mode  upon  execution  of  an  Approved  service.  Table  6  lists  the  non-Approved
algorithms implemented by the module, while Table 10 below lists the services that constitute the non-Approved
mode.

When following the guidance in section 11.5 of this document, CSPs are not shared between Approved and non-
Approved services and modes of operation.

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 17 of 44

PortsStorageMemoryCPUOperating SystemlibcryptoHost DeviceCalling ApplicationlibsslHMACdigestKEY:               Cryptographic Boundary                              Physical Perimeter                         Data Input               Data Output               Control Input               Control Output               Status Output               System Calls

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

3.  Cryptographic Module Interfaces

FIPS 140-3 defines the following logical interfaces for cryptographic modules:

•  Data Input
•  Data Output
•  Control Input
•  Control Output
•  Status Output

As a software library, the cryptographic module has no direct access to any of the host platform’s physical ports,
as it communicates only to the calling application via its well-defined API. A mapping of the approved interfaces
and the module’s  logical ports and  interfaces can be found in  Table 7.  Note that the module does not output
control information, and thus has no specified control output interface.

Table 7 – Ports and Interfaces

Physical Port

Logical Interface

Data That Passes Over Port/Interface

Physical data input port(s) of
the tested platforms

Data Input
•  API input arguments that provide

•  Data to be encrypted, decrypted, signed,

verified, or hashed

input data for processing

Physical data output port(s) of
the tested platforms

Data Output
•  API output arguments that return
generated or processed data back
to the caller

•  Keys to be used in cryptographic services
•  Random seed material for the module’s

DRBG

•  Keying material to be used as input to

key establishment services

•  Data that has been encrypted,

decrypted, or verified

•  Digital signatures
•  Hashes
•  Random values generated by the

module’s DRBG

•  Keys established using module’s key

establishment methods

Physical control input port(s) of
the tested platforms

Control Input
•  API input arguments that are

•  API commands invoking cryptographic

services

used to initialize and control the
operation of the module

•  Modes, key sizes, etc. used with

cryptographic services

Physical status output port(s)
of the tested platforms

Status Output
•  API call return values

•  Status information regarding the module
•  Status information regarding the invoked

service/operation

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 18 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

4.  Roles, Services, and Authentication

The sections below describe the module’s authorized roles, services, and operator authentication methods.

Authorized Roles

4.1
The module supports two roles that authorized operators can assume:

•  Crypto Officer - The CO role performs cryptographic initialization or management functions and general

security services.

•  User  –  The  User  role performs general security services,  including cryptographic operations and other

approved security functions.

The module does not support multiple concurrent operators. The calling application that loaded the module is its
only operator.

Table 8 below lists the supported roles, along with the services (including input and output) available to each role.

Table 8 – Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

Role

Service

Input

Output

CO
CO

CO

CO
User

User

User

User
User

User

User
User

User

User

Show Status
Perform self-tests on-demand

Zeroize

Show versioning information
Perform symmetric encryption

Perform symmetric decryption

Generate symmetric digest

Verify symmetric digest
Perform authenticated symmetric
encryption
Perform authenticated symmetric
decryption
Generate random number
Perform keyed hash operations

Perform hash operation

Generate DSA domain parameters

API call parameters
Re-instantiate module; API
call parameters
Restart calling application;
reboot or power-cycle host
platform
API call parameters
API call parameters, key,
plaintext
API call parameters, key,
ciphertext
API call parameters, key,
plaintext
API call parameters, digest
API call parameters, key,
plaintext
API call parameters, key,
ciphertext
API call parameters
API call parameters, key,
message
API call parameters,
message
API call parameters

Current operational status
Status

None

Module name, version
Status, ciphertext

Status, plaintext

Status, digest

Status
Status, ciphertext

Status, plaintext

Status, random bits
Status, MAC37

Status, hash

Status, domain
parameters

37 MAC – Message Authentication Code

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 19 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

Role

User

User
User
User

User

User

User

User
User

User

Service

Input

Verify DSA domain parameters

API call parameters

Generate asymmetric key pair
Verify ECDSA public key
Generate digital signature

Verify digital signature

Perform key wrap

Perform key unwrap

Compute shared secret
Derive TLS keys

Perform key agreement functions

API call parameters
API call parameters, key
API call parameters, key,
message
API call parameters, key,
signature, message
API call parameters,
encryption key, key
API call parameters,
decryption key, key
API call parameters
API call parameters, TLS pre-
master secret
API call parameters

Output

Status, domain
parameters
Status, key pair
Status
Status, signature

Status

Status, encrypted key

Status, decrypted key

Status, shared secret
Status, TLS keys

Status, symmetric key

Authentication Methods

4.2
The module does not support authentication methods; operators implicitly assume an authorized role based on
the service selected.

Services

4.3
Descriptions of the approved services available to the authorized roles are provided in Table 9 below.

This module is a  software library that provides cryptographic functionality to calling applications. As such, the
security functions provided by the module are considered the module’s security services. Indicators for Approved
services (in the case of this module, those security functions with algorithm validation certificates and all required
self-tests) are provided via API return value.

When invoking a security function, the calling application provides inputs via an internal structure, or “context”.
Upon each service invocation, the module will determine if the invoked security function is an Approved service.
To access the resulting value, the calling application must pass the finalized context to the indicator API associated
with that security function (note the indicator check must be performed prior to any context cleanup is performed).
The indicator API will return “1” to indicate the usage of an Approved service. Indicators for services providing
non-Approved security functions (as well as for services not requiring an indicator) will have a value other than
“1”, ensuring that the indicators for Approved services are unambiguous. Additional details on the APIs used for
the Approved service indicators are provided in Appendix A below.

The keys and Sensitive Security Parameters (SSPs) listed in the table indicate the type of access required using the
following notation:

•  G = Generate: The module generates or derives the SSP.
•  R = Read: The SSP is read from the module (e.g., the SSP is output).
•  W = Write: The SSP is updated, imported, or written to the module.
•  E = Execute: The module uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation.

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 20 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

•  Z = Zeroize: The module zeroizes the SSP.

Service

Description

Approved Security Function(s)

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

Table 9 – Approved Services

Show Status

Perform self-
tests on-
demand

Zeroize

Show
versioning
information
Perform
symmetric
encryption

Return Approved
mode status
Perform pre-
operational self-
tests

Zeroize and de-
allocate memory
containing
sensitive data
Return module
versioning
information
Encrypt plaintext
data

Perform
symmetric
decryption

Decrypt
ciphertext data

Generate
symmetric
digest
Verify
symmetric
digest
Perform
authenticated
symmetric
encryption
Perform
authenticated
symmetric
decryption
Generate
random
number

Perform
keyed hash
operations

Generate
symmetric digest

Encrypt plaintext
using supplied
AES GCM key and
IV
Decrypt
ciphertext using
supplied AES
GCM key and IV
Return random
bits to the calling
application

Compute a
message
authentication
code

Perform hash
operation

Compute a
message digest

Generate DSA
domain
parameters

Generate DSA
domain
parameters

None

None

None

None

AES-CBC (Cert. A3358)
AES-CCM (Cert. A3358)
AES-CFB1 (Cert. A3358)
AES-CFB128 (Cert. A3358)
AES-CFB8 (Cert. A3358)
AES-CTR (Cert. A3358)
AES-ECB (Cert. A3358)
AES-GMAC (Cert. A3358)
AES-KW (Cert. A3358)
AES-KWP (Cert. A3358)
AES-OFB (Cert. A3358)
AES-CBC (Cert. A3358)
AES-CCM (Cert. A3358)
AES-CFB1 (Cert. A3358)
AES-CFB128 (Cert. A3358)
AES-CFB8 (Cert. A3358)
AES-CTR (Cert. A3358)
AES-ECB (Cert. A3358)
AES GMAC (Cert. A3358)
AES-KW (Cert. A3358)
AES-KWP (Cert. A3358)
AES-OFB (Cert. A3358)
AES-CMAC (Cert. A3358)
AES-GMAC (Cert. A3358)

AES-GCM (Cert. A3358)

AES-GCM (Cert. A3358)

Counter DRBG (Cert. A3358)

HMAC SHA-1 (Cert. A3358)
HMAC SHA2-224 (Cert. A3358)
HMAC SHA2-256 (Cert. A3358)
HMAC SHA2-384 (Cert. A3358)
HMAC SHA2-512 (Cert. A3358)
SHA-1 (Cert. A3358)
SHA2-224 (Cert. A3358)
SHA2-256 (Cert. A3358)
SHA2-384 (Cert. A3358)
SHA2-512 (Cert. A3358)
DSA PQGGen (FIPS186-4) (Cert.
A3358)

Verify symmetric
digest

AES-CMAC (Cert. A3358)
AES-GMAC (Cert. A3358)

CO

CO

None

Integrity Test Key -
libcrypto
Integrity Test Key -
libssl
All SSPs

CO

All SSPs – Z

Access Rights to Keys and/or
SSPs
N/A

Indicator

N/A

Integrity Test Key – libcrypto –
E
Integrity Test Key - libssl  – E

API return
value

None

CO

N/A

AES key

User

AES key – WE

N/A

N/A

API return
value

AES key

User

AES key – WE

API return
value

AES CMAC key
AES GMAC key

AES CMAC key
AES GMAC key

AES GCM key
AES GCM IV

AES GCM key
AES GCM IV

DRBG entropy input
DRBG seed
DRBG ‘V’ value
DRBG ‘Key’ value
HMAC key

User

User

User

User

User

User

AES CMAC key – WE
AES GMAC key – WE

AES CMAC key – WE
AES GMAC key – WE

AES GCM key – WE
AES GCM IV – WE

AES GCM key – WE
AES GCM IV – WE

DRBG entropy input – WE
DRBG seed – GE
DRBG ‘V’ value – GE
DRBG ‘Key’ value – GE
HMAC key – WE

None

User

N/A

None

User

N/A

API return
value

API return
value

API return
value

API return
value

API return
value

API return
value

API return
value

API return
value

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 21 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

Service

Description

Approved Security Function(s)

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

Verify DSA
domain
parameters
Generate
asymmetric
key pair

Verify DSA
domain
parameters
Generate a
public/private
key pair

Verify ECDSA
public key
Generate
digital
signature

Verify an ECDSA
public key
Generate a
digital signature

Verify digital
signature

Verify a digital
signature

Perform key
wrap

Perform key
wrap

Perform key
unwrap

Perform key
unwrap

Compute
shared secret

Derive TLS
keys

Compute
DH/ECDH shared
secret suitable
for use as input
to a TLS KDF
Derive TLS
session and
integrity keys

Perform key
agreement
functions

Establish
symmetric key
using DH/ECDH
key agreement

User

User

User

User

User

User

User

User

User

User

DSA PQGVer (FIPS186-4) (Cert. A3358)

None

DSA KeyGen (FIPS186-4) (Cert. A3358)
ECDSA KeyGen (FIPS186-4)  (Cert.
A3358)
RSA KeyGen (FIPS186-4) (Cert. A3358)

ECDSA KeyVer (FIPS186-4) (Cert.
A3358)
DSA SigGen (FIPS186-4) (Cert. A3358)
ECDSA SigGen (FIPS186-4)  (Cert.
A3358)
RSA SigGen (FIPS186-4) (Cert. A3358)
DSA SigVer (FIPS186-4) (Cert. A3358)
ECDSA SigVer (FIPS186-4)  (Cert.
A3358)
RSA SigVer (FIPS186-4) (Cert. A3358)
KTS (AES-CCM) (Cert. A3358)
KTS (AES-GCM) (Cert. A3358)
KTS (AES-GMAC) (Cert. A3358)
KTS (AES-CMAC) (Cert. A3358)
KTS (AES-KW) (Cert. A3358)
KTS (AES-KWP) (Cert. A3358)
KTS (AES-CCM) (Cert. A3358)
KTS (AES-GCM) (Cert. A3358)
KTS (AES-GMAC) (Cert. A3358)
KTS (AES-CMAC) (Cert. A3358)
KTS (AES-KW) (Cert. A3358)
KTS (AES-KWP) (Cert. A3358)
KAS-ECC-SSC Sp800-56Ar3 (Cert.
A3358)
KAS-FFC-SSC Sp800-56Ar3 (Cert.
A3358)

TLS KDF (Cert. A3358)
TLS v1.3 KDF (Cert. A3359)

KAS (KAS-ECC_SSC/TLS KDF) (Certs.
A3358, A3358)
KAS (KAS-ECC_SSC/TLS v1.3 KDF)
(Certs. A3358, A3359)
KAS (KAS-FFC_SSC/TLS KDF) (Certs.
A3358, A3358)
KAS (KAS-FFC_SSC/TLS v1.3 KDF)
(Certs. A3358, A3359)

DSA public key
DSA private key
ECDSA public key
ECDSA private key
RSA public key
RSA private key
ECDSA public key

DSA private key
ECDSA private key
RSA private key

DSA public key
ECDSA public key
RSA public key

AES key
AES GCM key
AES GCM IV

AES key
AES GCM key
AES GCM IV

DH public key
DH private key
ECDH public key
ECDH private key
TLS pre-master secret
TLS pre-master secret
TLS master secret
AES key
AES GCM key
AES GCM IV
HMAC key
DH public key
DH private key
ECDH public key
ECDH private key
TLS pre-master secret
TLS master secret
AES key
AES GCM key
AES GCM IV
HMAC key

Indicator

API return
value

API return
value

API return
value
API return
value

API return
value

API return
value

API return
value

API return
value

API return
value

API return
value

Access Rights to Keys and/or
SSPs
N/A

DSA public key – GR
DSA private key – GR
ECDSA public key – GR
ECDSA private key – GR
RSA public key – GR
RSA private key – GR
ECDSA public key – W

DSA private key – WE
ECDSA private key – WE
RSA private key – WE

DSA public key – WE
ECDSA public key – WE
RSA public key – WE

AES key – WE
AES GCM key – WE
AES GCM IV – WE

AES key – WE
AES GCM key – WE
AES GCM IV – WE

DH public key – WE
DH private key – WE
ECDH public key – WE
ECDH private key – WE
TLS pre-master secret – GE
TLS pre-master secret – WE
TLS master secret – GE
AES key – GR
AES GCM key – GR
AES GCM IV – GR
HMAC key – GR
DH public key – WE
DH private key – WE
ECDH public key – WE
ECDH private key – WE
TLS pre-master secret – GE
TLS master secret – GE
AES key – GR
AES GCM key – GR
AES GCM IV – GR
HMAC key – GR

* Per FIPS 140-3 IG 2.4.C, the Show Status, Zeroize, and Show Versioning Information services do not require an Approved service indicator.

The following services/algorithms are allowed for legacy use only:

•  Digital signature verification using ECDSA with curves B-163, K-163, and P-192
•  Digital signature verification using DSA with key lengths of 1024 bits
•  Digital signature verification using RSA with modulus lengths of 1024 bits
•  Digital signature verification using SHA-1

Table 10 below lists the non-approved services available to module operators.

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 22 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

Service

Description

Algorithm(s) Accessed

Table 10 – Non-Approved Services

Perform data encryption
(non-approved)

Perform symmetric data
encryption

Perform data decryption
(non-approved)

Perform symmetric data
decryption

AES -GCM (non-approved),
ARIA, Blake2, Blowfish,
Camellia, CAST, CAST5,
ChaCha20, DES, IDEA, RC2,
RC4, RC5, SEED, SM4, Triple
DES (non-approved), XTS-AES

AES -GCM (non-approved),
ARIA, Blake2, Blowfish,
Camellia, CAST, CAST5,
ChaCha20, DES, IDEA, RC2,
RC4, RC5, SEED, SM4, Triple
DES, XTS-AES

Role

User

Indicator

API return value

User

API return value

Perform MAC operations
(non-approved)

Perform message
authentication operations

Poly1305, Triple DES/CMAC
(non-approved)

User

API return value

Perform hash operation
(non-approved)

Perform hash operation

Perform digital signature
functions (non-approved)

Perform digital signature
functions

MD2, MD4, MD5, RIPEMD,
RMD160, SHA-3, SM2, SM3,
SM4, Whirlpool

DSA (non-approved), ECDSA
(non-approved), RSA (non-
approved)

User

API return value

User

API return value

Perform key agreement
functions (non-approved)

Perform key agreement
functions

DH (non-approved), ECDH
(non-approved)

User

API return value

Perform key wrap (non-
approved)

Perform key wrap/unwrap
functions

AES -GCM (non-approved),
Triple DES/CMAC (non-
approved)

User

API return value

Perform key encapsulation
(non-approved)

Perform key encapsulation
functions

Perform key un-
encapsulation (non-
approved)

Perform key un-encapsulation
functions

RSA (non-approved)

User

API return value

RSA (non-approved)

User

API return value

Perform key derivation
functions (non-approved)

Perform key derivation
functions

HKDF, PBKDF2, TLS 1.0/1.1
KDF

User

API return value

Perform authenticated
encryption/decryption (non-
approved)

Perform authenticated
encryption/decryption

AES-OCB

User

API return value

Generate random number
(non-approved)

Perform random number
generation

ANSI X9.31 RNG (with 128-bit
AES core)

User

API return value

Generate asymmetric key
pair (non-approved)

Perform key pair generation

DSA (non-approved), ECDSA
(non-approved), RSA (non-
approved)

User

API return value

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 23 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

5.

Software/Firmware Security

All software components within the cryptographic boundary are verified using an approved integrity technique
implemented  within  the  cryptographic  module  itself.  The  module  implements  an  integrity  test  technique
consisting of a single encompassing HMAC SHA2-256 digest file that covers both library files; failure of the integrity
test will cause the module to enter a critical error state. Details regarding the keys used for the integrity checks
can be found in Table 11.

The module’s integrity check is performed automatically at module instantiation (i.e., when the module is loaded
into memory for execution) without action from the module operator. The CO can initiate the pre-operational
tests  on  demand  by  restarting  the  calling  application,  rebooting/power-cycling  the  host  server,  or  issuing  the
FIPS_selftest() API command.

The Dynatrace Cryptographic Module is not delivered to end-users as a standalone offering. Rather, it is a pre-
built integrated component of Dynatrace’s application software. Dynatrace does not provide end-users with any
mechanisms to directly access the module, its source code, its APIs, or any information sent to/from the module.
Thus, end-users have no ability to independently load the module onto target platforms. No configuration steps
are  required  to  be  performed  by  end-users,  and  no  end-user  action  is  required  to  initialize  the  module  for
operation. The module is designed with a default entry point (DEP) that ensures that the pre-operational tests
and conditional CASTs are initiated automatically when the module is loaded.

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 24 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

6.  Operational Environment

The Dynatrace Cryptographic Module comprises a software cryptographic library that executes in a modifiable
operational environment.

The cryptographic module has control over its own SSPs. The process and memory management functionality of
the  host  device’s  OS  prevents  unauthorized  access  to  plaintext  private  and  secret  keys,  intermediate  key
generation values and other SSPs by external processes during module execution. The module only allows access
to SSPs through its well-defined API. The operational environment provides the capability to separate individual
application processes from each other by preventing uncontrolled access to CSPs and uncontrolled modifications
of  SSPs  regardless  of  whether  this  data  is  in  the  process  memory  or  stored  on  persistent  storage  within  the
operational environment. Processes that are spawned by the module are owned by the module and are not owned
by external processes/operators.

Please refer to section 2.1 of this document for a list/description of the applicable operational environments.

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 25 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

7.  Physical Security

This  section  is  not  applicable.  Per  section  7.7.1  of  ISO/IEC  19790:2021,  the  requirements  of  this  section  are
“applicable to hardware and firmware modules, and hardware and firmware components of hybrid modules”.

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 26 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

8.  Non-Invasive Security

This section is not applicable. There are currently no approved non-invasive mitigation techniques references in
ISO/IEC 19790:2021 Annex F.

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 27 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

9.

Sensitive Security Parameter
Management

Keys and Other SSPs

9.1
The module supports the keys and other SSPs listed in Table 11.

Table 11 – Keys

Generation

Import / Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroization

Hardcoded in
the module
image

Plaintext in
RAM

Not subject to
zeroization
requirements

Hardcoded in
the module
image

Plaintext in
RAM

Not subject to
zeroization
requirements

Derived via TLS
KDF

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

-

-

Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Never exported

[MD/EE]

Use & Related
Keys

Pre-
operational
verification
of libcrypto
library
Pre-
operational
verification
of libssl
library
Symmetric
encryption,
decryption

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Keys

Integrity Test
Key - libcrypto
(not an SSP)

Integrity Test
Key - libssl
(not an SSP)

Strength

Security Function and
Cert. Number

256 bits

HMAC SHA2-256
(Cert. A3358)

256 bits

HMAC SHA2-256
(Cert. A3358)

AES key
(CSP)

Between 128
and 256 bits

AES-CBC
(Cert. A3358)

AES-CCM
(Cert. A3358)

AES-CFB1
(Cert. A3358)

AES-CFB128
(Cert. A3358)

AES-CFB8
(Cert. A3358)

AES-CTR
(Cert. A3358)

AES-ECB
(Cert. A3358)

AES-KW
(Cert. A3358)

AES-KWP
(Cert. A3358)

KTS (AES-CCM)
(Cert. A3358)

KTS (AES-KW)
(Cert. A3358)

KTS (AES-KWP)
(Cert. A3358)
AES-GCM
(Cert. A3358)

KTS (AES-GCM)
(Cert. A3358)

AES GCM key
(CSP)

Between 128
and 256 bits

-

-

-

-

Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Never exported

Derived via TLS
KDF

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

Authenticate
d symmetric
encryption,
decryption

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 28 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import / Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroization

February 6, 2025

Use & Related
Keys

AES CMAC key
(CSP)

Between 128
and 256 bits

AES-CMAC
(Cert. A3358)

KTS (AES-CMAC)
(Cert. A3358)

AES GMAC key
(CSP)

Between 128
and 256 bits

AES-GMAC
(Cert. A3358)

KTS (AES-GMAC)
(Cert. A3358)

HMAC key
(CSP)

Between 160
and 512 bits

HMAC SHA-1
(Cert. A3358)

-

-

-

HMAC SHA2-224
(Cert. A3358)

HMAC SHA2-256
(Cert. A3358)

HMAC SHA2-384
(Cert. A3358)

HMAC SHA2-512
(Cert. A3358)
DSA SigGen (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A3358)

DSA private
key
(CSP)

112 or 128
bits

DSA public key
(PSP)

112 or 128
bits

DSA SigVer (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A3358)

ECDSA private
key
(CSP)

Between 112
and 256 bits

ECDSA SigGen
(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A3358)

ECDSA public
key
(PSP)

Between 112
and 256 bits

ECDSA SigVer (FIPS186-
4)
(Cert. A3358)

RSA private key
(CSP)

Between 112
and 150 bits

RSA SigGen (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A3358)

Generated
internally via
Approved
DRBG

Generated
internally via
approved
DRBG

Generated
internally via
approved
DRBG

Generated
internally via
approved
DRBG

Generated
internally via
approved
DRBG

[MD/EE]
Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Never exported

[MD/EE]
Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Never exported

[MD/EE]
Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Never exported

[MD/EE]

Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Exported in
plaintext via API
parameter

[MD/EE]
Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Exported in
plaintext via API
parameter

[MD/EE]
Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Exported in
plaintext via API
parameter

[MD/EE]
Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Exported in
plaintext via API
parameter

[MD/EE]
Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Exported in
plaintext via API
parameter

-

-

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

MAC
generation,
verification

Unload
module;
Remove power

MAC
generation,
verification

Derived via TLS
KDF

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

Keyed hash

-

-

-

-

-

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

Digital
signature
generation

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

Digital
signature
verification

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

Digital
signature
generation

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

Digital
signature
verification

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

Digital
signature
generation,
asymmetric
decryption

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 29 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import / Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroization

RSA public key
(PSP)

Between 80
and 150 bits

RSA SigVer (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A3358)

DH private key
(CSP)

112 bits

KAS-SSC-FFC
(Cert. A3358)

DH public key
(PSP)

112 bits

KAS-SSC-FFC
(Cert. A3358)

ECDH private
key
(CSP)

Between 112
and 256 bits

KAS-SSC-ECC
(Cert. A3358)

ECDH public
key
(PSP)

Between 112
and 256 bits

KAS-SSC-ECC
(Cert. A3358)

Other SSPs
AES GCM IV
(CSP)

-

AES-GCM
(Cert. A3358)

TLS pre-master
secret
(CSP)

Between 112
and 256 bits

TLS KDF
(Cert. A3358)

TLS v1.3 KDF
(Cert. A3359)

Generated
internally via
approved
DRBG

Generated
internally via
approved
DRBG

Generated
internally via
approved
DRBG

Generated
internally via
approved
DRBG

Generated
internally via
approved
DRBG

Generated
internally in
compliance
with the
provisions of a
peer-to-peer
industry
standard
protocol
-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

[MD/EE]
Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Exported in
plaintext via API
parameter

[MD/EE]

Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Exported in
plaintext via API
parameter

[MD/EE]
Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Exported in
plaintext via API
parameter

[MD/EE]
Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Exported in
plaintext via API
parameter

[MD/EE]
Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Exported in
plaintext via API
parameter

[MD/EE]

-

Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Never exported

[MD/EE]

Use & Related
Keys

Digital
signature
verification,
asymmetric
encryption

1024-bit keys
for legacy
use (digital
signature
verification)
only
DH shared
secret
computation

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

DH shared
secret
computation

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

ECDH shared
secret
computation

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

ECDH shared
secret
computation

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

Initialization
vector for
AES GCM

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

Derivation of
the TLS
master
secret

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 30 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

Key/SSP
Name/Type

TLS master
secret
(CSP)

Strength

256 bits

Security Function and
Cert. Number

TLS KDF
(Cert. A3358)

TLS v1.3 KDF
(Cert. A3359)

DRBG entropy
input
(CSP)

256 bits

Counter DRBG
(Cert. A3358)

-

-

Generation

Import / Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroization

-

Derived
internally using
the TLS pre-
master secret
via TLS KDF

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

DRBG seed
(CSP)

256 bits

Counter DRBG
(Cert. A3358)

DRBG ‘V’ value
(CSP)

128 bits

Counter DRBG
(Cert. A3358)

Generated
internally using
nonce along
with DRBG
entropy input
Generated
internally

DRBG ‘Key’
value
(CSP)

256 bits

Counter DRBG
(Cert. A3358)

Generated
internally

Imported in
plaintext via API
parameter

Never exported

[MD/EE]
-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Use & Related
Keys

Derivation of
the AES/AES-
GCM key and
HMAC key
used for
securing TLS
connections
Entropy
material for
DRBG

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Not
persistently
stored by
the module
Not
persistently
stored by
the module

Unload
module;
Remove power

Seeding
material for
DRBG

Unload
module;
Remove power

Unload
module;
Remove power

State values
for DRBG

State values
for DRBG

DRBGs

9.2
The module implements the following Approved DRBG(s):

•  Counter-based DRBG

This DRBG is used to generate random values at the request of the calling application. Outputs from the DRBGs
are also used in the generation of seeds for asymmetric key pair generation.

The module implements the following non-Approved DRBG(s):

•  ANSI X9.31 RNG
•  Hash-based DRBG (non-approved)
•  HMAC-based DRBG (non-approved)

SSP Storage Techniques

9.3
There is no mechanism within the module’s cryptographic boundary for the persistent storage of SSPs. The module
stores DRBG state values for the lifetime of the DRBG instance. The module uses SSPs passed in on the stack by
the calling application and does not store these SSPs beyond the lifetime of the API call.

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 31 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

SSP Zeroization Methods

9.4
Maintenance,  including  protection  and  zeroization,  of  any  keys  and  CSPs  that  exist  outside  the  module’s
cryptographic  boundary  are  the  responsibility of the end-user. For the zeroization of keys in volatile  memory,
module operators can unload the module from memory or reboot/power-cycle the host device.

RBG Entropy Sources

9.5
Table 12 below specifies the module’s entropy sources.

Table 12 – Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification

Entropy Source(s)

Minimum Number
of Bits of Entropy

Details

Calling application

256

256 bits of seed material are provided to the module’s DRBG by
the calling application. The calling application and its entropy
sources are outside the module’s cryptographic boundary. The
calling application shall use entropy sources that meet the
security strength required for the CTR_DRBG as shown in NIST SP
800-90Arev1, Table 3. This entropy shall be supplied by means of
a callback function. The callback function must return an error if
the minimum entropy strength cannot be met.

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 32 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

10.  Self-Tests

 Both  pre-operational  and  conditional  self-tests  are  performed  by  the  module.  Pre-operational  tests  are
performed between the time the cryptographic module is instantiated and before the module transitions to the
operational  state.  Conditional  self-tests  are  performed  by  the  module  during  module  operation  when  certain
conditions exist. The following sections list the self-tests performed by the module, their expected error status,
and the error resolutions.

10.1  Pre-Operational Self-Tests
The module performs the following pre-operational self-test(s):

•  Software integrity test for libcrypto and libssl (using an HMAC SHA2-256 digest)

10.2  Conditional Self-Tests
The module performs the following conditional self-tests:

•  Conditional cryptographic algorithm self-tests (CASTs)

o  AES ECB decrypt KAT38 (128-bit)
o  AES CCM encrypt KAT (192-bit)
o  AES CCM decrypt KAT (192-bit)
o  AES GCM encrypt KAT (128-bit)
o  AES GCM decrypt KAT (128-bit)
o  AES CMAC generate KAT (CBC mode; 128/192/256-bit key lengths)
o  AES CMAC verify KAT (CBC mode; 128/192/256-bit key lengths)
o  CTR_DRBG KAT (AES, 256-bit, with derivation function)
o  CTR_DRBG instantiate/generate/reseed KAT (AES, 256-bit)
o  DSA sign KAT (2048-bit; SHA2-256)
o  DSA verify KAT (2048-bit; SHA2-256)
o  ECDSA sign KAT (P-224 and K-233 curve, SHA2-256)
o  ECDSA verify KAT (P-224 and K-233 curve, SHA2-256)
o  RSA sign KAT (2048-bit; SHA2-256; PKCS#1.5 scheme)
o  RSA verify KAT (2048-bit; SHA2-256; PKCS#1.5 scheme)
o  HMAC KATs (SHA-1, SHA2-224, SHA2-256, SHA2-384, SHA2-512)
o  SHA-1 KAT
o  SHA-2 KATs (SHA2-224, SHA2-256, SHA2-384, SHA2-512)
o  FFC DH Shared Secret “Z” Computation KAT (2048-bit)
o  ECC CDH Shared Secret “Z” Computation KAT (P-224 curve)
o  TLS 1.2 KDF KAT
o  TLS 1.3 KDF KAT

38 KAT – Known Answer Test

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 33 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

To ensure all CASTs are performed prior to the first operational use of the associated algorithm, all CASTs
are performed during the module’s initial power-up sequence. The SHA and HMAC KATs are performed
prior  to  the  pre-operational  software  integrity  test;  all  other  CASTs  are  executed  after  the  successful
completion of the software integrity test.

•  Conditional pair-wise consistency tests (PCTs)

o  DSA sign/verify PCT39
o  ECDSA sign/verify PCT
o  RSA sign/verify PCT
o  DH key generation PCT
o  ECDH key generation PCT

10.3  On-Demand Self-Testing
The CO can initiate the pre-operational self-tests and conditional CASTs on demand for periodic testing of the
issuing  the
module  by  re-instantiating  the  module,  rebooting/power-cycling  the  host  device,  or
FIPS_selftest() API command.

10.4  Self-Test Failure Handling
The module reaches the critical error state when any self-test fails. Upon test failure, the module immediately
terminates the calling application’s API call with a returned error code and sets an internal flag, signaling the error
condition. For any subsequent request made by the calling application for cryptographic services, the module will
return a failure indicator, thereby disabling all access to its cryptographic functions, sensitive security parameters
(SSPs), and data output services while the error condition persists.

To recover, the module must be reinitialized by restarting the calling application or via reboot/power-cycle of the
host  platform.  If  the  pre-operational  self-tests  complete  successfully,  then  the  module  can  resume  normal
operations. If the module continues to experience self-test failures after reinitializing, then the module will not be
able to resume normal operations, and the CO should contact Dynatrace LLC  for assistance.

39 PCT – Pairwise Consistency Test

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 34 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

11.  Life-Cycle Assurance

The sections below describe how to ensure the module is operating in its validated configuration, including the
following:

•  Procedures for secure installation, initialization, startup, and operation of the module
•  Maintenance requirements
•  Administrator and non-Administrator guidance

Operating  the  module  without  following  the  guidance  herein  will  result  in  non-compliant  behavior  and  is
outside the scope of this Security Policy.

11.1  Secure Installation
As the module is an integrated component of Dynatrace’s application software, module operators have no ability
to  independently  load  the  module  onto  the  target  platform.  The  module  and  its  calling  application  are  to  be
installed on a platform specified in section 2.1 or one where portability is maintained. Dynatrace does not provide
any mechanisms to directly access the module, its source code, its APIs, or any information sent between it and
other Dynatrace applications.

Initialization

11.2
This module is designed to support Dynatrace applications, and these applications are the sole consumers of the
cryptographic  services  provided  by  the  module.  No  end-user  action  is  required  to  initialize  the  module  for
operation; the calling application performs any actions required to initialize the module.

The pre-operational integrity test and  conditional CASTs are performed automatically via a default entry point
(DEP) when the module is loaded for execution, without any specific action from the calling application or the
end-user. End-users  have no means to short-circuit or bypass these actions. Failure of any of the initialization
actions will result in a failure of the module to load for execution.

11.3  Startup
No setup steps are required to be performed by end-users.

11.4  Administrator Guidance
There are no specific management activities required of the CO role to ensure that the module runs securely.
However,  if  any  irregular  activity  is  noticed  or  the  module  is  consistently  reporting  errors,  then  Dynatrace
Customer Support should be contacted.

The following list provides additional guidance for the CO:

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 35 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

•  The fips_post_status()API can be used to determine the module’s operational status. A non-zero
return  value  indicates  that  the  module  has  passed  all  pre-operational  self-tests  and  is  currently  in  its
Approved mode.

•  The  OpenSSL_version()  API  can  be  used  to  obtain  the  module’s  versioning  information.  This
information  will  include  the  module  name  and  version,  which  can  be  correlated  with  the  module’s
validation record.

11.5  Non-Administrator Guidance
The following list provides additional policies for the User role:

•  The cryptographic module’s services are designed to be provided to a calling application. Excluding the
use of the NIST-defined elliptic curves as trusted third-party domain parameters, all other assurances from
FIPS PUB 186-4 (including those required of the intended signatory and the signature verifier) are outside
the scope of the module and are the responsibility of the calling application.

•  The module performs assurances for its key agreement schemes as specified in the following sections of

NIST SP 800-56Arev3:

o  Section 5.5.2 (for assurances of domain parameter validity)
o  Section 5.6.2.1 (for assurances required by the key pair owner)

The module includes the capability to provide the required recipient assurance of ephemeral public key
validity  specified  in  section  5.6.2.2.2  of  NIST  SP  800-56Arev3.  However,  since  public  keys  from  other
modules are not received directly by this module (those keys are received by the calling application), the
module has no knowledge of when a public key is received. Invocation of the proper module services to
validate another module’s public key is the responsibility of the calling application.

•  AES GCM encryption is used in the context of the TLS protocol versions 1.2 and 1.3. To meet the AES GCM
(key/IV) pair uniqueness requirements from NIST SP 800-38D, the module complies with FIPS 140-3 IG C.H
as follows:

o  For  TLS  v1.2,  the  counter  portion  of  the  IV  is  strictly  increasing.  When  the  IV  exhausts  the
maximum number of possible values for a given session key, a failure in encryption will occur and
a  handshake  to  establish  a  new  encryption  key  will  be  required.  It  is  the  responsibility  of  the
module operator (i.e., the first party, client, or server) to trigger this handshake in accordance
with RFC 5246 when this condition is encountered.

The module supports acceptable AES GCM cipher suites from section 3.3.1 of NIST SP 800-52rev2.
The AES GCM IV generation is performed internally, is compliant with the RFC 5288, and shall only
be used for the TLS 1.2 protocol to be compliant with scenario 1 in FIPS 140-3 IG C.H; thus, the
module is compliant with NIST SP 800-52rev2.

o  For TLS v1.3, a 64-bit sequence number is maintained separately for reading and writing records.
Each sequence number is set to zero at the beginning of a connection and is incremented by one
after reading or writing each record. Because the size of sequence numbers is 64-bit, they should

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 36 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

not wrap. If a sequence number needs to wrap, the TLS implementation is responsible for either
rekeying or terminating the connection.

The module supports the TLS 1.3 GCM cipher suite from section 3.3.1.2 of NIST SP 800-52rev2.
The AES GCM IV generation is performed internally, is compliant with the RFC 8446, and shall only
be used for the TLS 1.3 protocol to be compliant with scenario 5 in FIPS 140-3 IG C.H; thus, the
module is compliant with NIST SP 800-52rev2.

The module also supports internal IV generation using the module’s Approved DRBG. The IV is at least 96
bits in length per section 8.2.2 of NIST SP 800-38D. Per NIST SP 800-38D and scenario 2 of FIPS 140-3 IG
C.H, the DRBG generates outputs such that the (key/IV) pair collision probability is less than 2-32.

In the event  that  power to the module is lost and subsequently  restored, the calling application must
ensure that any AES-GCM keys used for encryption or decryption are re-distributed.

•  The calling application is responsible for ensuring that CSPs are not shared between Approved and non-

Approved services and modes of operation.

•  The calling application is responsible for using entropy sources that meet the minimum security strength

of 112 bits required for the CTR_DRBG as shown in NIST SP 800-90Arev1, Table 3.

11.6  Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures
The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) program is a dictionary or glossary of vulnerabilities that have
been identified for specific code bases, such as software applications or open libraries. This list allows interested
parties to acquire the details of vulnerabilities by referring to a unique identifier known as the CVE ID.

11.6.1  Applicable CVEs
The following table lists the applicable CVEs impacting the module, as well as methods of mitigation.

CVE Number

Severity

Mitigation

Table 13 – CVEs

CVE-2023-3446

Low

CVE-2023-3817

Low

Before calling DH_check(), DH_check_ex(), or EVP_PKEY_param_check(), operator
should verify that the DH key or DH parameters were obtained from a trusted source.

Before calling DH_check(), DH_check_ex(), or EVP_PKEY_param_check(), operator
should verify that the DH key or DH parameters were obtained from a trusted source.

CVE-2024-4741

Low

Applications should not directly call the SSL_free_buffers function.

11.6.2  CVE Mitigation Plan
Post-submission, the module has been continually updated to provide mitigations for the CVEs listed above. These
mitigations will be included in a future revalidation of the module.

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 37 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

12.  Mitigation of Other Attacks

This section is not applicable. The module does not claim to mitigate any attacks beyond the FIPS 140-3 Level 1
requirements for this validation.

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 38 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

Appendix A.  Approved Service Indicators

This appendix specifies the APIs that are externally accessible and return the Approved service indicators.

Synopsis

 #include <openssl/service_indicator.h>
 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 int EVP_cipher_get_service_indicator(EVP_CIPHER_CTX *ctx);
 int DSA_get_service_indicator(DSA * ptr_dsa, DSA_MODES_t mode);
 int RSA_key_get_service_indicator(RSA * ptr_rsa);
 int PBKDF_get_service_indicator();
 int EVP_Digest_get_service_indicator(EVP_MD_CTX *ctx);
 int EC_key_get_service_indicator(EC_KEY *ec_key);
 int CMAC_get_service_indicator(CMAC_CTX *cmac_ctx, CMAC_MODE_t mode);
 int HMAC_get_service_indicator(HMAC_CTX *ctx);
 int TLSKDF_get_service_indicator(EVP_PKEY_CTX *tls_ctx);
 int TLS1_3_kdf_get_service_indicator(EVP_MD *md);
 int TLS1_3_get_service_indicator(SSL *s);
 int DRBG_get_service_indicator(RAND_DRBG *drbg);

Description
These APIs are high-level interfaces that return the Approved service indicator value based on the parameter(s)
passed to them.

•  EVP_cipher_get_service_indicator() is used to return the appropriate Approved service indicator status

for block ciphers like AES and Triple DES.

•  DSA_get_service_indicator() is used to return the appropriate Approved service indicator status for the
DSA algorithm and its modes. You must include the mode you want the indicator for, which are specified
in the DSA_MODES_t enum.

•  RSA_key_get_service_indicator() is used to return the appropriate Approved service indicator status for

RSA algorithm and its modes.

•  PBKDF_get_service_indicator() is used to return the appropriate Approved service indicator status for

PBKDF usage.

•  EVP_Digest_get_service_indicator() is used to return the appropriate Approved service indicator status

for SHS algorithms like SHA-1 and SHAKE.

•  EC_key_get_service_indicator() is used to return the appropriate Approved service indicator status for

elliptic curve algorithms like ECDSA and its modes.

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 39 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

•  CMAC_get_service_indicator()  is  used  to  return  the  appropriate  Approved  service  indicator  status  for
CMAC requests that use AES or Triple DES. You must include the mode you want the indicator for, which
are specified in the CMAC_MODE_t enum.

•  HMAC_get_service_indicator()  is used to return the  appropriate  Approved service indicator status for

HMAC requests and the associated SHS algorithm.

•  TLSKDF_get_service_indicator() is used to return the appropriate Approved service indicator status for

TLS KDF usage excluding TLS 1.3.

•  TLS1_3_kdf_get_service_indicator() is used to return the appropriate Approved service indicator status
for  TLS  1.3  KDF  usage.  This
is  used  to  call  the
function  requires  the  ssl.h
TLS1_3_get_service_indicator()  function  because  of  the  SSL  struct  requirement.  You  cannot  call
TLS1_3_get_service_indicator() directly unless you have the SSL struct that was used.

file  and

•  DRBG_get_service_indicator()  is  used  to  return  the  appropriate  Approved  service  indicator  status  for

DRBG usage.

Return Values
Each function returns “1” when indicating the usage of Approved services and “0” for non-approved services.

Notes
When calling a I<get> function, always call it after the variables have been finalized but before they are freed or
destroyed.

Examples
The code sample below provides examples of how to check the Approved service indicators for Triple DES (3-key,
in ECB mode) encryption and decryption:

 int 3des_indicator_test()
    {
        static EVP_CIPHER *cipher = NULL;
        static EVP_CIPHER_CTX *ctx;
        int outLen;
        unsigned char pltmp[8];
        unsigned char citmp[8];

unsigned char key[] = { 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,

              19,20,21,22,23,24};

unsigned char plaintext[] = { 'e', 't', 'a', 'o', 'n', 'r', 'i', 's' };

        cipher = EVP_des_ede3_ecb();

        //Encrypt
        ctx = EVP_CIPHER_CTX_new();
        EVP_EncryptInit_ex(ctx, cipher, NULL, key, NULL);
        EVP_CIPHER_CTX_set_key_length(ctx, 24);
        EVP_EncryptUpdate(ctx, citmp, &outLen, plaintext, 8);

        // Check the indicator
        int NID = EVP_CIPHER_CTX_nid(ctx);
        fprintf(stdout,"EVP_des_ede3_ecb (NID %i) encrypt indicator = %i\n", NID, EVP_cipher_get_service_indicator(ctx));

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 40 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

        EVP_CIPHER_CTX_cleanup(ctx);

        //Decrypt
        ctx = EVP_CIPHER_CTX_new();
        EVP_DecryptInit_ex(ctx, cipher, NULL, key, NULL);
        EVP_CIPHER_CTX_set_key_length(ctx, 24);
        EVP_DecryptUpdate(ctx, pltmp, &outLen, citmp, 8);

        // Check the indicator
        fprintf(stdout,"EVP_des_ede3_ecb (NID %i) decrypt indicator = %i\n", NID, EVP_cipher_get_service_indicator(ctx));
        EVP_CIPHER_CTX_cleanup(ctx);
        EVP_CIPHER_CTX_free(ctx);
    }

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 41 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

Appendix B.  Acronyms and Abbreviations

Table 14 provides definitions for the acronyms and abbreviations used in this document.

Table 14 – Acronyms and Abbreviations

Term

Definition

AES

ANSI

API

CAST

CBC

CCCS

CCM

CFB

CKG

CMAC

CMVP

CO

CPU

CSP

CTR

CVL

DEP

DES

DH

Advanced Encryption Standard

American National Standards Institute

Application Programming Interface

Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Test

Cipher Block Chaining

Canadian Centre for Cyber Security

Counter with Cipher Block Chaining - Message Authentication Code

Cipher Feedback

Cryptographic Key Generation

Cipher-Based Message Authentication Code

Cryptographic Module Validation Program

Cryptographic Officer

Central Processing Unit

Critical Security Parameter

Counter

Component Validation List

Default Entry Point

Data Encryption Standard

Diffie-Hellman

DRBG

Deterministic Random Bit Generator

DSA

ECB

ECC

Digital Signature Algorithm

Electronic Code Book

Elliptic Curve Cryptography

ECC CDH

Elliptic Curve Cryptography Cofactor Diffie-Hellman

ECDH

ECDSA

Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman

Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm

EMI/EMC

Electromagnetic Interference /Electromagnetic Compatibility

FFC

FIPS

GCM

Finite Field Cryptography

Federal Information Processing Standard

Galois/Counter Mode

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 42 of 44

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.9

February 6, 2025

Term

Definition

GMAC

GPC

HMAC

KAS

KAT

KDF

KTS

KW

KWP

MD

NIST

OCB

OFB

OS

Galois Message Authentication Code

General-Purpose Computer

(keyed-) Hash Message Authentication Code

Key Agreement Scheme

Known Answer Test

Key Derivation Function

Key Transport Scheme

Key Wrap

Key Wrap with Padding

Message Digest

National Institute of Standards and Technology

Offset Codebook

Output Feedback

Operating System

PBKDF

Password-Based Key Derivation Function

PCT

PKCS

PSS

PUB

RC

RNG

RSA

Pairwise Consistency Test

Public Key Cryptography Standard

Probabilistic Signature Scheme

Publication

Rivest Cipher

Random Number Generator

Rivest Shamir Adleman

SHAKE

Secure Hash Algorithm KECCAK

SHA

SHS

SP

TDES

TLS

XEX

XTS

Secure Hash Algorithm

Secure Hash Standard

Special Publication

Triple Data Encryption Standard

Transport Layer Security

XOR Encrypt XOR

XEX-Based Tweaked-Codebook Mode with Ciphertext Stealing

Dynatrace Cryptographic Module 1.1
©2025 Dynatrace LLC
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 43 of 44

Prepared by:
Corsec Security, Inc.

12600 Fair Lakes Circle, Suite 210
Fairfax, VA 22033
United States of America

Phone: +1 703 267 6050
Email: info@corsec.com
www.corsec.com

