HP Poly Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Document Version 1.2

December 18, 2025

Prepared for:

Prepared by:

Hewlett Packard, Inc.
345 Encinal Street
Santa Cruz, CA 95060
hp.com
+1 831.426.5858

Corsec Security, Inc.
12600 Fair Lakes Circle, Suite #210
Fairfax, VA 22033
corsec.com
+1 703.267.6050

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

5

3
4

Table of Contents
1  General ..................................................................................................................................................... 4
Cryptographic Module Specification ......................................................................................................... 5
2
2.1  Overall Security Design and Rules of Operation .......................................................................................... 8
2.1.1  Usage of AES-GCM ........................................................................................................................................ 8
RSA and ECDSA Keys ...................................................................................................................................... 8
2.1.2
2.1.3
CSP Sharing ................................................................................................................................................... 8
2.1.4  Modes of Operation ...................................................................................................................................... 8
Cryptographic Module Interfaces .............................................................................................................. 9
Roles, Services, and Authentication .........................................................................................................10
Roles ........................................................................................................................................................... 10
4.1
4.2  Authentication............................................................................................................................................ 10
Services ...................................................................................................................................................... 10
4.3
Software/Firmware Security ....................................................................................................................13
5.1  Module Format .......................................................................................................................................... 13
6  Operational Environment.........................................................................................................................13
7
Physical Security ......................................................................................................................................13
8  Non-Invasive Security ..............................................................................................................................13
9
Sensitive Security Parameter Management ..............................................................................................14
10  Self-Tests .................................................................................................................................................17
10.1  Pre-Operational Self-Tests .......................................................................................................................... 17
10.2  Conditional Self-Tests ................................................................................................................................. 17
11  Life-Cycle Assurance ................................................................................................................................18
Installation Instructions .............................................................................................................................. 18
11.1.1  Retrieving Module Name and Version ........................................................................................................ 18
12  Mitigation of Other Attacks......................................................................................................................18
References and Standards ...............................................................................................................................19
Acronyms ........................................................................................................................................................20

11.1

List of Tables
Table 1. Security Levels ............................................................................................................................................... 4
Table 2. Tested Operational Environments ................................................................................................................. 5
Table 3. Vendor Affirmed Operational Environments ................................................................................................ 5
Table 4. Approved Algorithms .................................................................................................................................... 6
Table 5. Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security Claimed .......... 7
Table 6. Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation ............................................. 7
Table 7. Ports and Interfaces ...................................................................................................................................... 9
Table 8. Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output ............................................................................................. 10
Table 9. Approved Services ....................................................................................................................................... 11
Table 10. Non-Approved Services ............................................................................................................................. 12
Table 11. SSPs ........................................................................................................................................................... 14
Table 12. Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification ................................................................ 16

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 2 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

List of Figures
Figure 1. Module Boundary ........................................................................................................................................ 7

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 3 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

1  General
This  document  describes  the  cryptographic  module  Security  Policy  (SP)  for  the  HP  Poly  Cryptographic  Module
(Software  version:  2022061300)  (also  referred  to  as  the  “module”  hereafter).  It  contains  specification  of  the
security  rules  under  which  the  cryptographic  module  operates,  including  the  security  rules  derived  from  the
requirements of the FIPS  140-3 standard. The  module is a software  module and has a  Multi-Chip Stand Alone
embodiment.

The module meets the overall Level 1 security requirements of FIPS 140-3. The following table lists the level of
validation for each area in FIPS 140-3:

Table 1. Security Levels

ISO/IEC 24759
Section 6.

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security
Level

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

General

Cryptographic Module Specification

Cryptographic Module Interfaces

Roles, Services, and Authentication

Software/Firmware Security

Operational Environment

Physical Security

Non-Invasive Security

Sensitive Security Parameter Management

Self-Tests

Life-Cycle Assurance

Mitigation of Other Attacks

1

1

1

1

1

1

N/A

N/A

1

1

1

N/A

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 4 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

2  Cryptographic Module Specification

The  module  is  an  open-source,  general-purpose  cryptographic  library  which  provides  approved  cryptographic
algorithms to serve BoringSSL and other user-space applications. The module is intended for use in environments
specified in Table 2 below and any general-purpose environment that requires cryptographic primitives. The Tested
Operational  Environment’s  Physical  Perimeter  (TOEPP)  of  the  module  is  the  physical  perimeter  of  the  tested
environment, which is listed in Table 2 below. The module is a software module and has a Multi-Chip Stand Alone
embodiment. The installation instructions are provided in Section 11 of this document.

The boundary of the module is defined as a single object file, bcm.o. The module version is: 2022061300. The
module was tested on the following operational environments:

Operating System  Hardware Platform

Processor

PAA/Acceleration

Table 2. Tested Operational Environments

Android 12

Android 12

Android 13

Android 13

Android 13

Android 13

Android 13

Android 13

Android 13

Android 13

Android 13

Android 13

CCX 400

CCX 600

Rockchip PX30 ARMv8-A

NXP i.MX 8M ARMv8-A

Google Pixel 7 Pro

Google Tensor G2 64-bit and 32-bit

Google Pixel 7 Pro

Google Tensor G2 64-bit and 32-bit

Google Pixel 6 Pro

Google Tensor 64-bit and 32-bit

Google Pixel 6 Pro

Google Tensor 64-bit and 32-bit

With PAA

With PAA

With PAA

Without PAA

With PAA

Without PAA

Google Pixel 5a

Qualcomm Snapdragon 765 64-bit and 32-bit

With PAA

Google Pixel 5a

Qualcomm Snapdragon 765 64-bit and 32-bit

Without PAA

Google Pixel 4a

Qualcomm Snapdragon 730 64-bit and 32-bit

With PAA

Google Pixel 4a

Qualcomm Snapdragon 730 64-bit and 32-bit

Without PAA

Google Pixel 4XL

Qualcomm Snapdragon 855 64-bit and 32-bit

With PAA

Google Pixel 4XL

Qualcomm Snapdragon 855 64-bit and 32-bit

Without PAA

#

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

The  cryptographic  module  is  also  supported  on  the  following  operational  environments  for  which  operational
testing and algorithm testing was not performed. The CMVP makes no statement as to the correct operation of
the module on the operational environments for which operational testing was not performed.

Operating System

Hardware Platform

Table 3. Vendor Affirmed Operational Environments

Linux 4.X

Linux 5.X

Linux 6.X

Android 12

Android 12

Android 12

Android 12

Android 12

x86_64 architecture; ARMv7 architecture; ARMv8 architecture

X86_64 architecture; ARMv7 architecture; ARMv8 architecture

x86_64 architecture; ARMv7 architecture; ARMv8 architecture

CCX 350; ARMv8-A

CCX 500; ARMv8-A

CCX 505; ARMv8-A

CCX 700; ARMv8-A

Trio C60; ARMv8-A

#

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 5 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

Table 4 below lists all the approved algorithms implemented in the module:

Table 4. Approved Algorithms

Mode/Method

CBC, ECB, CTR

Description / Key Sizes(s) /
Key Strength(s)
Key sizes: 128, 192, 256 bits;
Strength: 128, 192, 256 bits

Use / Function

Encryption, Decryption

Key sizes: 128, 192, 256 bits;
Strength: 128, 192, 256 bits

Authenticated Encryption,
Authenticated Decryption

GCM

CCM

KW, KWP

CAVP
Cert1
A2811,
A6962

A2811,
A6962

A2811,
A6962
A2811,
A6962

Algorithm and
Standard
AES
FIPS 197
SP800-38A
AES
FIPS 197
SP800-38D
AES FIPS 197
SP800-38C
AES, KTS
FIPS 197
SP800-38F

CVL
A2811,
A6962
Vendor
Affirmed

TLS v1.0/1.1
and v1.2 KDF2
SP800-135rev1
CKG

A2811,
A6962

DRBG
SP800-90Arev1

CTR_DRBG

A2811,
A6962

ECDSA
FIPS 186-4

A2811,
A6962

HMAC
FIPS 198-1

Key Pair Generation,
Signature Generation,
Signature Verification,
Public Key Validation
Generate, Verify

A2811,
A6962

RSA
FIPS 186-4

A2811,
A6962

SHA
FIPS 180-4

Key Generation,
Signature Generation,
Signature Verification
PKCS 1.5 and PSS
Hashing

N/A

SHA2-256, SHA2-384, SHA2-512;
Strength: 256, 384, 512 bits

SP800-133rev2

Key size: 128 bits;
Strength: 128 bits
Key sizes: 128, 192, 256 bits;
Strength: 128, 192, 256 bits

Authenticated Encryption,
Authenticated Decryption
Key Transport per IG D.G
Key establishment
methodology provides
between 128 and 256 bits of
encryption strength
Key Derivation

Cryptographic Key Generation:
Section 5: Generation of Key Pairs
for Asymmetric-Key Algorithms,
Section 6.1: The “Direct
Generation” of Symmetric Keys
AES-256;
Key size: 256 bits;
Strength: 256 bits
P-224, P-256, P-384, P-521;
Strength: 112, 128, 192, 256 bits

Key Generation
Symmetric keys and seeds are
generated as the direct
output of the DRBG

Random Bit Generation

Digital Signature Services

HMAC-SHA-1, HMAC-SHA2-224,
HMAC-SHA2-256, HMAC-SHA2-384,
HMAC-SHA2-512;
Strength: 128, 192, 256, 384, 512
bits
1024, 2048, 3072, 4096;
Strength: 80, 112, 128, 152 bits;
Note: Key size 1024 should be only
used for Signature Verification
SHA-13, SHA2-224, SHA2-256,
SHA2-384, SHA2-512,
SHA2-512/256;
Strength: 80, 112, 128, 192, 256,
128 bits

Generation, Authentication

Digital Signature Services

Digital Signature Generation,
Digital Signature Verification,
Non-Digital Signature
Applications

1 There are algorithms that have been CAVP-tested on the same certificate but are not used by any approved service of the module. Only
the algorithms, modes/methods, and key lengths/curves/moduli shown in this table are used by an approved service of the module.
2 No parts of this protocol, other than the approved cryptographic algorithms and the KDFs, have been tested by the CAVP and CMVP.
3 Used for non-digital signature applications or to verify existing digital signatures only.

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 6 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

CAVP
Cert1
A2811,
A6962

Algorithm and
Standard
KAS-SSC
SP800-56Arev3

Mode/Method

KAS-ECC-SSC
ephemeralUnified

Description / Key Sizes(s) /
Key Strength(s)
ECC: P-224, P-256, P-384 and P-521;
Strength: 112, 128, 192, 256 bits

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

Use / Function

Key Agreement Scheme
Shared Secret Computation
per SP800-56Arev3; Key
establishment methodology
provides between 112 and
256 bits of security strength

Table 5. Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security Claimed

Algorithm

Caveat

Use / Function

MD5

As allowed per SP800-135rev1 (No security claimed)  When used with the TLS protocol version 1.0 and 1.1

Table 6. Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation

Algorithm/Function

Use/Function

MD5, MD4

POLYVAL

Non-Approved hashing

Non-Approved authenticated encryption

DES, Triple-DES (non-compliant)  Non-Approved encryption/decryption

AES-GCM-SIV (non-compliant)

Non-Approved encryption/decryption

DH (non-compliant)

Non-Approved key agreement

Figure 1. Module Boundary

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 7 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

2.1  Overall Security Design and Rules of Operation

2.1.1  Usage of AES-GCM
AES GCM encryption and decryption are used in the context of the TLS protocol version 1.2 (compliant to Scenario
1a in FIPS 140-3 IG C.H). The module is compliant with NIST SP 800-52 and the mechanism for IV generation is
compliant with RFC 5288. The module ensures that it is strictly increasing and thus cannot repeat. When the IV
exhausts  the  maximum  number  of  possible  values  for  a  given  session  key,  the  first  party  (client  or  server)  to
encounter this condition may either trigger a handshake to establish a new encryption key in accordance with RFC
5246 or fail. In either case, the module prevents any IV duplication and thus enforces the security property.

The  module’s  IV  is  generated  internally  by  the  module’s  Approved  DRBG,  which  is  internal  to  the  module’s
boundary. The IV is 96 bits in length per NIST SP 800-38D, Section 8.2.2 and FIPS 140-3 IG C.H scenario 2.

The  selection  of  the  IV  construction  method  is  the  responsibility  of  the  user  of  this  cryptographic  module.  In
approved mode, users of the module must not utilize GCM with an externally generated IV. Per IG C.H, in the event
module power is lost and restored, the consuming application must ensure that any of its AES-GCM keys used for
encryption or decryption are re-distributed.

The  module  implements  the  KDF  TLS  1.2,  and  other  cryptographic  primitives  used  in  TLS  1.2,  but  does  not
implement the TLS 1.2 protocol itself.

2.1.2  RSA and ECDSA Keys
The  module  allows  the  use  of  1024-bit  RSA  keys  for  legacy  purposes  including  signature  generation,  which  is
disallowed in Approved mode as per NIST SP800-131Arev2. Therefore, cryptographic operations with the Non-
Approved key sizes will result in the module operating in Non-Approved mode.

The elliptic curves utilized shall be the validated NIST-recommended curves and shall provide a minimum of 112
bits of encryption strength.

2.1.3  CSP Sharing
Non-Approved cryptographic algorithms shall not share the same key or CSP as an approved algorithm. As such,
Approved algorithms shall not use the keys generated by the module’s Non-Approved key generation methods or
the converse.

2.1.4  Modes of Operation
The  module  supports  two  modes  of  operation:  Approved  and  Non-approved.  The  module  will  be  in  approved
mode  when  all  self-tests  have  completed  successfully,  and  only  Approved  algorithms  are  invoked.  See  Table  4
above for a list of the supported Approved algorithms. The non-Approved mode is entered when a non-Approved
algorithm is invoked. See Table 6 for a list of non-Approved algorithms.

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 8 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

3  Cryptographic Module Interfaces

The Data Input interface consists of the input parameters of the API functions. The Data Output interface consists
of  the  output  parameters  of  the  API  functions.  The  Control  Input  interface  consists  of  the  actual  API  input
parameters. The Status Output interface includes the return values of the API functions.

Table 7. Ports and Interfaces

Logical Interface

Data that passes over port/interface

Data Input

Data Output

Control Input

Status Output

API input parameters

API output parameters and return values

API input parameters

API return values

The module does not implement a power input interface or a control output interface. As a software module,
control of the physical ports is outside the module scope. However, when the module is performing self-tests, or
is in an error state, all output on the module’s logical data output interfaces is inhibited.

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 9 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

4  Roles, Services, and Authentication

4.1  Roles
The cryptographic module only implements a Crypto Officer (CO) role. The CO role is implicitly assumed by the
entity accessing services implemented by the module. An operator is considered the owner of the thread that
instantiates the module and, therefore, only one operator is allowed, and no concurrent operators are allowed.

4.2  Authentication
The module does not support operator authentication.

4.3  Services
The Approved services supported by the module and access rights within services accessible over the module’s
public interface are listed in the table below:

Table 8. Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

Role

Service

Input

Symmetric Encryption

Plaintext, encryption key

Symmetric Decryption

Ciphertext, decryption key

Keyed Hashing

Message, key

Hashing

Message

Random Bit Generation

API call parameters

Signature Generation

Message, signing key

Output

Return code, ciphertext

Return code, plaintext

Return code, Message Authentication
Code

Return code, hash

Return code, random bits

Return code, signature

Signature Verification

Signature, verification key

Return code

Key Transport

Key Agreement

API call parameters, wrapping key

Return code, wrapped key

API call parameters

Return code, shared secret

TLS Key Derivation

API call parameters, TLS pre-master secret  Return code, TLS Key

Key Generation

Key Verification

On-Demand Self-Test

Zeroization

Show Status

API call parameters

Return code, key pair

API call parameters, key pair

N/A

N/A

Return code

Return code

N/A

API call parameters

Return code, status

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 10 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

Approved services are listed in Table 9. The SSPs listed in the table indicate the access required using below notation:

G = Generate: The module generates or derives the SSP.
R = Read: The SSP is read from the module (e.g., the SSP is output).
W = Write: The SSP is updated, imported, or written to the module.
E = Execute: The module uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation.
Z = Zeroize: The module zeroizes the SSP.

Service

Description

Approved Security Functions

Keys and/or SSPs

Table 9. Approved Services

Symmetric
Encryption

Perform symmetric encryption
operations

Symmetric
Decryption

Perform symmetric decryption
operations

Keyed
Hashing

Perform keyed hashing
operations

Hashing

Perform hashing operations

Random Bit
Generation

Generate random numbers

AES CBC, ECB, CTR, CCM (Certs. #A2811 and
#A6962)
CKG
AES CBC, ECB, CTR, GCM, CCM (Certs. #A2811
and #A6962)
CKG
HMAC-SHA-1, HMAC-SHA2-224,
HMAC-SHA2-256, HMAC-SHA2-384,
HMAC-SHA2-512 (Certs. #A2811 and #A6962)
SHA-1, SHA2-224, SHA2-256, SHA2-384,
SHA2-512, SHA2-512/256 (Certs. #A2811 and
#A6962)
CTR_DRBG (Certs. #A2811 and #A6962)
CKG

CTR_DRBG, RSA SigGen, ECDSA SigGen
(Certs. #A2811 and #A6962)

Perform verification operations  RSA SigVer, ECDSA SigVer (Certs. #A2811 and
#A6962)
AES KW, KWP (Certs. #A2811 and #A6962)
CKG

Perform signing operations

Signature
Generation
Signature
Verification
Key Transport  Perform key encryption

operations; KTS using AES-KW,
AES-KWP per IG D.G
Perform key agreement
operations

Key
Agreement

AES Key, AES-GCM Key

Roles  Access Rights
to Keys
and/or SSPs
W, E

CO

AES Key, AES-GCM Key,
AES-GCM IV

CO

W, E

HMAC Key

CO

W, E

N/A

CO

N/A

DRBG Seed, CTR_DRBG V,
CTR_DRBG Key
DRBG output
CTR_DRBG Entropy Input
RSA Signature Generation Key,
ECDSA Signing Key
RSA Signature Verification Key,
ECDSA Verification Key
AES Wrapping Key

CO

G, E

CO
CO
CO

G, R
W, E
G, W, E

CO

G, W, E

CO

W, E

Indicator

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

KAS-ECC-SSC (Certs. #A2811 and #A6962)

EC DH Private Key, EC DH Public Key  CO
CO
Shared Secret

G, W, E
G

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 11 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Service

Description

Approved Security Functions

Keys and/or SSPs

TLS Key
Derivation

Key
Generation

Perform key derivation
operations

TLS KDF (Certs. #A2811 and #A6962)

Perform generation operations  CTR_DRBG, RSA KeyGen, ECDSA KeyGen

Perform key pair verification
operations
Execute self-tests on demand

Key
Verification
On-Demand
Self-Test
Zeroization
Zeroize all SSPs
Show Status  Obtain the module status and

versioning information

(Certs. #A2811 and #A6962)
CKG
ECDSA KeyVer (Certs. #A2811 and #A6962)

N/A

N/A
N/A

TLS Pre-Master Secret
TLS Master Secret
RSA Signature Generation Key,
ECDSA Signing Key

ECDSA Signing Key,
ECDSA Verification Key
N/A

All SSPs
N/A

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

Roles  Access Rights
to Keys
and/or SSPs
W, E
G, E
G, W, E

CO
CO
CO

CO

G, W, E

CO

N/A

CO
CO

Z
N/A

Indicator

1

1

1

1

N/A
N/A

Non-Approved Services are listed in Table 10 below:

Table 10. Non-Approved Services

Service

Description

Algorithms Accessed  Role

Indicator

Hashing (as allowed per SP800-135rev1)  Perform hashing operations when used with the TLS protocol version 1.0 and 1.1  MD5

Hashing

Hashing

Perform hashing operations

Used as part of AES-GCM-SIV

Symmetric encryption/decryption

Perform symmetric encryption and/or decryption operations

Key Generation

Perform generation operations

RSA Primitives (RSADP, RSAEP, RSASP,
RSAVP)

Perform RSA related primitive operations (decrypt, encrypt, sign, verify)

MD4

POLYVAL

DES
Triple-DES
AES

DH

RSA

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

0

0

0

0

0

0

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 12 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

5  Software/Firmware Security

The  pre-operational  integrity  test  is  performed  using  HMAC-SHA2-256.  The  integrity  test  can  be  executed  on
demand by power-cycling the host platform and reloading the module. The module does not support software
loading. Please refer to Section 11.1 for instructions on compiling the source code into executable.

5.1  Module Format
The form of the module is a single object file, bcm.o.

6  Operational Environment

The module runs on a GPC, which is a modifiable operational environment, running one of the operating systems
specified  in  Table  2.  Each  approved  operating  system  manages  processes  and  threads  in  a  logically  separated
manner. The module’s user is considered the owner of the calling application that instantiates the module.

No specific security rules, settings or restrictions to the configuration of the operational environment applies to
the module. The module is designed to ensure that all the self-tests are initiated automatically when the module
is loaded.

7  Physical Security

As a software module, the physical security requirements are not applicable.

8  Non-Invasive Security

The module does not claim any non-invasive security measures.

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 13 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

9  Sensitive Security Parameter Management

All the SSPs are zeroized implicitly when the host platform is restarted. The various SSPs used by the module are listed in Table 11 below:

Key/SSP Name/
Type
AES Key
(CSP)

AES-GCM Key
(CSP)
AES-GCM IV4
(CSP)
AES Wrapping Key
(CSP)
ECDSA Signing Key
(CSP)

Strength

128/192/256
bits

128/192/256
bits
96 bits

128/192/256
bits
112/128/192/
256 bits

Security Function
and Cert. Number
AES-CBC, ECB,
CTR, CCM
A2811, A6962
AES-GCM
A2811, A6962
AES-GCM
A2811, A6962
AES-KW, AES-KWP
A2811, A6962
ECDSA SigGen
A2811, A6962

Generation

External

External

External

External

Internally
Generated

ECDSA Verification
Key
(PSP)

112/128/192/
256 bits

ECDSA SigVer
A2811, A6962

Internally
Generated

EC DH Private Key
(CSP)

112/128/192/
256 bits

ECDSA KeyGen
A2811, A6962

Internally
Generated

EC DH Public Key
(PSP)

112/128/192/
256 bits

ECDSA KeyGen
A2811, A6962

Internally
Generated

Table 11. SSPs

Import/
Export
Input via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry)

Input via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry)
Input via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry)
Input via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry)
Input via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry);
Output via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry)
Input via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry);
Output via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry)
Input via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry);
Output via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry)
Input via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry);
Output via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry)

Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation  Use & Related

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

Plaintext
in RAM
Plaintext
in RAM
Plaintext
in RAM
Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host
Power-cycle
host
Power-cycle
host
Power-cycle
host

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

Keys
AES encrypt /
decrypt

AES decrypt /
verify
AES decrypt /
verify
AES key
wrapping
ECDSA
signature
generation

ECDSA
signature
verification

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

Key Agreement

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

Key Agreement

4 As specified in Section 2.1.1, usage of externally generated IV is only allowed for AES-GCM decryption in the approved mode of operation.

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 14 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

Security Function
and Cert. Number
HMAC-SHA-1,
HMAC-SHA2-224,
HMAC-SHA2-256,
HMAC-SHA2-384,
HMAC-SHA2-512
A2811, A6962
KAS-ECC-SSC
A2811, A6962
RSA SigGen
A2811, A6962

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Key/SSP Name/
Type
HMAC Key
(CSP)

Strength

128/192/256/
384/512 bits

Generation

External

Import/
Export
Input via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry)

Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation  Use & Related

N/A

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

Keys
Keyed hashing

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

N/A

SP800-56Arev3  Plaintext

Shared Secret
(CSP)
RSA Signature
Generation Key
(CSP)

RSA Signature
Verification Key
(PSP)

112/128/192/
256 bits
112, 128, 152
bits

Internally
Generated
Internally
Generated

80, 112, 128,
152 bits

RSA SigVer
A2811, A6962

Internally
Generated

TLS Master Secret
(CSP)

384 bits

TLS KDF
A2811, A6962

TLS Pre-Master
Secret
(CSP)
DRBG Seed
(CSP)
CTR_DRBG V
(CSP)
CTR_DRBG Key
(CSP)
CTR_DRBG
Entropy Input
(CSP)

TLS KDF
A2811, A6962

CTR_DRBG
A2811, A6962
CTR_DRBG
A2811, A6962
CTR_DRBG
A2811, A6962
CTR_DRBG
A2811, A6962

112-256 bits

384 bits

128 bits

256 bits

384 bits used
as seed, quality
of entropy at
least 112 bits

Internally Derived
via key derivation
function defined in
SP800-135rev1
KDF (TLS)
External

Internally
Generated
Internally
Generated
Internally
Generated
External

Input via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry);
Output via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry)
Input via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry);
Output via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry)
N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Input via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry)

N/A

N/A

N/A

Input via API in plaintext
(Electronic Entry)

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

in RAM
Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host
Power-cycle
host

Key Agreement

RSA signature
generation

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

RSA signature
verification

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

TLS key
derivation

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

TLS key
derivation

Plaintext
in RAM
Plaintext
in RAM
Plaintext
in RAM
Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host
Power-cycle
host
Power-cycle
host
Power-cycle
host

DRBG Seeding
material
DRBG internal
state
DRBG internal
state
DRBG entropy

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 15 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Key/SSP Name/
Type
DRBG output

Strength

2048 bits

Security Function
and Cert. Number
CTR_DRBG
A2811, A6962

Generation

Internally
Generated

Import/
Export
N/A

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation  Use & Related

N/A

Plaintext
in RAM

Power-cycle
host

Keys
Random bits
provided for
the calling
application

Entropy sources  Minimum number of

Details

Table 12. Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification

bits of entropy

Passive Entropy

112 bits and above

Use of a [SP800-90B] compliant entropy source with at least 256 bits of security strength.
Entropy is supplied to the Module via callback functions. The callback functions shall return an error if the minimum entropy
strength cannot be met.
The caveat “No assurance of the minimum strength of generated SSPs (e.g., keys)” is applicable.

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 16 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

10  Self-Tests

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

ISO/IEC 19790 requires the module to perform self-tests to ensure the integrity of the module and the correctness
of the cryptographic functionality. Some functions also require conditional tests during normal operation of the
module. The self-tests can be requested on demand by power cycling the host platform. The module has a single
error state, which is called the error state. This state is entered upon failure of a self-test. The module indicates
this error state by providing the output status “*** KAT failed” where *** is the algorithm name (example: ECDSA-
sign KAT failed). The module can be recovered by terminating execution of the host program and reclamation by
the host operating system. The supported tests are listed and described in this section.

10.1  Pre-Operational Self-Tests
Pre-operational self-tests are run upon the initialization of the module and further reboots of the host platform.
The CAST (Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Test) for HMAC-SHA2-256 is performed before the integrity test. Self-tests
do not require operator intervention to run. If any of the tests fail, the module will not initialize and enter an error
state where no services can be accessed.

The module implements the following pre-operational self-tests:

•  Software Integrity Test (HMAC-SHA2-256)

10.2  Conditional Self-Tests
Conditional Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Tests (CAST) are run prior to the first use of the cryptographic algorithm.
CASTs do not require operator intervention to run. If any of the tests fail, the module will enter an error state and
no services can be accessed.

The module implements the following CASTs:

•  ECDSA Signature Generation KAT (P-256)
•  ECSDA Signature Verification KAT (P-256)
•  RSA Signature Generation KAT (2048 bits, PKCSv1.5)
•  RSA Signature Verification KAT (2048 bits, PKCSv1.5)
•  SP800-56Arev3 KAS-ECC KAT (P-256)
•  AES CBC Encryption KAT (128 bits)
•  AES CBC Decryption KAT (128 bits)
•  AES-GCM Encryption KAT (128 bits)
•  AES-GCM Decryption KAT (128 bits)
•  CAST, performed on DRBG, per SP800-90Arev1 Section 11.3 (Instantiate, Generate, Reseed)
•  TLS v1.2 KDF KAT
•  SHA-1 KAT
•  SHA2-256 KAT
•  SHA2-512 KAT
•  HMAC-SHA2-256 KAT

Conditional self-tests are run during the module’s operation. If any of these tests fail, the module will enter an
error state, where no services can be accessed by the operators. The module can be reinitialized to clear the error
and resume approved mode of operation.

The  module  implements  the  following  conditional  pairwise  consistency  tests.  The  below  PCTs  are  executed
whenever a new key pair is generated:

•  ECDSA Pairwise Consistency Test
•  EC DH Pairwise Consistency Test
•  RSA Pairwise Consistency Test

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 17 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

11  Life-Cycle Assurance

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

The cryptographic module is initialized by loading the module before any cryptographic functionality is available.
In User Space, the operating system is responsible for the initialization process and loading of the library. There
are no maintenance requirements applicable.

General guidance about the module can be found at https://boringssl.googlesource.com/boringssl. This includes
information  related  to  FIPS  can  be  found  at
information  about  the  APIs,  building  and  specific
https://boringssl.googlesource.com/boringssl.git/+/refs/heads/fips20220613/crypto/fipsmodule/FIPS.md
(note
this still mentions 140-2, but the information there is the same).

11.1  Installation Instructions
During the manufacturing process, Hewlett Packard, Inc. (HP) executes the build and installation instructions for
the module. The module is pre-installed and configured on HP’s Poly CCX series phones. There are no additional
installation, configuration, or usage instructions for operators intending to use the module.

11.1.1  Retrieving Module Name and Version
The following methods will provide the module name and versions:

•  FIPS_module_name() – BoringCrypto
•  FIPS_version() – 2022061300

“BoringCrypto” correlates to the validated HP Poly Cryptographic Module (Software Version 2022061300).

12  Mitigation of Other Attacks

The module is not designed to mitigate attacks which are outside of the scope of FIPS 140-3.

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 18 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

References and Standards

The following Standards are referenced in this Security Policy:

Abbreviation  Full Specification Name

FIPS 140-3

Security Requirements for Cryptographic modules

FIPS 180-4

Secure Hash Standard (SHS)

FIPS 186-4

Digital Signature Standard (DSS)

FIPS 197

Advanced Encryption Standard

FIPS 198-1

The Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code (HMAC)

IG

SP 800-38A

SP 800-38C

SP 800-38D

SP 800-38F

SP 800-52

SP 800-56A

SP 800-90A

Implementation Guidance for FIPS PUB 140-3 and the Cryptographic Module Validation Program

Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Three Variants of Ciphertext Stealing for CBC
Mode
Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: The CCM Mode for Authentication and
Confidentiality
Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Galois/Counter Mode (GCM) and GMAC

Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Methods for Key Wrapping

Guidelines for the Selection, Configuration, and Use of Transport Layer Security (TLS) Implementations

Recommendation for Pair-Wise Key Establishment Schemes Using Discrete Logarithm Cryptography

Recommendation for Random Number Generation Using Deterministic Random Bit Generators

SP 800-131A

Transitioning the Use of Cryptographic Algorithms and Key Lengths

SP 800-133

Recommendation for Cryptographic Key Generation

SP 800-135

Recommendation for Existing Application-Specific Key Derivation Functions

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 19 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Acronyms

Acronym

Definition

AES

API

CAVP

CBC

CCCS

CFB

CKG

CMVP

CO

CRNGT

CSP

CTR

DES

DH

Advanced Encryption Standard

Application Programming Interface

Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program

Cipher-Block Chaining

Canadian Centre for Cyber Security

Cipher Feedback

Cryptographic Key Generation

Crypto Module Validation Program

Cryptographic Officer

Continuous Random Number Generator Test

Critical Security Parameter

Counter-mode

Data Encryption Standard

Diffie-Hellman

DRBG

Deterministic Random Bit Generator

DSS

EC

ECB

ECC

EC DH

ECDSA

FIPS

GCM

GMAC

GPC

HMAC

IG

IV

KAS

KAT

KDF

KW

KWP

MAC

MD4

MD5

N/A

NIST

NVLAP

OFB

Digital Signature Standard

Elliptic Curve

Electronic Code Book

Elliptic Curve Cryptography

Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman

Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm

Federal Information Processing Standards

Galois/Counter Mode

Galois Message Authentication Code

General Purpose Computer

key-Hashed Message Authentication Code

See References

Initialization Vector

Key Agreement Scheme

Known Answer Test

Key Derivation Function

Key Wrap

Key Wrap with Padding

Message Authentication Code

Message Digest algorithm MD4

Message Digest algorithm MD5

Non Applicable

National Institute of Standards and Technology

National Voluntary Lab Accreditation Program

Output Feedback

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 20 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

HP Poly Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Acronym

Definition

PAA

RAM

RFC

RSA

SHA

SHS

SP

SSL

TLS

Processor Algorithm Accelerator

Random Access Memory

Request For Comment

Rivest Shamir Adleman

Secure Hash Algorithm

Secure Hash Standard

Special Publication

Secure Socket Layer

Transport Layer Security

Triple-DES

Triple Data Encryption Standard

Hewlett Packard, Inc.

Page 21 of 21

Public Material – May be freely reproduced and distributed in its entirety without modification.

