18.12.24

Dell Australia Pty Limited, BSAFE Product Team

Dell BSAFE™ Crypto Module

Module Version 2.0.0.0

FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Document Version 1.8

This document is a non-proprietary security policy for the Dell BSAFE™ Crypto Module,
version 2.0.0.0 (BSAFE Crypto Module) from Dell Australia Pty Limited, BSAFE Product
Team.

This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including the
copyright notice.

Contents:

Preface  ......................................................................................... 3
1 General ...................................................................................... 4
2 Cryptographic Module Specification  .......................................... 5
3 Cryptographic Module Interfaces ............................................. 15
4 Roles, Services and Authentication  ......................................... 16
5 Software/Firmware Security  .................................................... 19
6 Operational Environment ......................................................... 20
7 Physical Security  ..................................................................... 21
8 Non-invasive Security .............................................................. 21
9 Sensitive Security Parameters Management  .......................... 22
10 Self-tests ................................................................................ 27
11 Life-cycle Assurance  .............................................................. 31
12 Mitigation of Other Attacks ..................................................... 35
13 Acronyms ............................................................................... 36

2

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

Preface

With the exception of the non-proprietary Dell BSAFE™ Crypto Module Security Policy
document, the overall FIPS 140-3 Security Level 1 validation submission documentation
is proprietary to Dell Australia Pty Limited and is releasable only under appropriate
non-disclosure agreements. For access to the documentation, please contact Dell
Support.

This security policy describes how the BSAFE Crypto Module meets the Security Level 1
requirements for all aspects of FIPS 140-3, and how to securely operate it.

Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 140-3 - Security Requirements for
Cryptographic Modules (FIPS 140-3) details the U.S. Government requirements for
cryptographic modules. More information about the FIPS 140-3 standard and validation
program is available on the NIST website.

This document deals only with operations and capabilities of the BSAFE Crypto Module
in the technical terms of a FIPS 140-3 cryptographic module security policy. More
information about BSAFE Crypto Module and the entire BSAFE product line is available
from Dell Support.

Terminology

In this document, the term BSAFE Crypto Module denotes the Dell BSAFE™ Crypto
Module, version 2.0.0.0, FIPS 140-3 validated Cryptographic Module for Overall Security
Level 1.

The BSAFE Crypto Module is also referred to as:

•

•

The Cryptographic Module

The module.

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

3

1 General

BSAFE Crypto Module is validated with an overall FIPS 140-3 Security Level 1. Security
levels for individual areas are shown in the following table:

ISO/IEC 24759 Section 6

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security
Level

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

General

Cryptographic Module Specification

Cryptographic Module Interfaces

Roles, Services, and Authentication

Software/Firmware Security

Operational Environment

Physical Security1

Non-invasive Security

Sensitive Security Parameter Management

Self-Tests

Life-cycle Assurance

Mitigation of Other Attacks

1

1

1

1

1

1

N/A

N/A

1

1

1

1

Table 1 Security Levels

1The module relies on the physical security provided by the host on which it runs.

4

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

2 Cryptographic Module Specification

BSAFE Crypto Module is a software module intended to be used as part of a software
system, providing cryptographic services to that system.

The module is provided as a static library in Executable and Linkable Format (ELF)
format, built for the Intel® x86_64 (64-bit) architecture. It follows the standard x86_64
calling conventions and provides a documented set of functions that can be called from
user software. It is intended to be linked directly into the user software system.

The following diagram illustrates the cryptographic module boundary and logical
interfaces:

Figure 1 Cryptographic boundary

2.1 Module Description

The module is identified as Dell BSAFE™ Crypto Module, version 2.0.0.0, and consists of
a single object file, fipsobj.o, in the static library libdellbcm.a.

The name and version of the module can be accessed from the APIs
BCM_module_info() and BCM_module_version().

The FIPS 140-3 validation certificate can be located on the NIST CMVP page using the
module name and version reported.

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

5

2.2 Software Module Cryptographic Boundaries

Dell BSAFE™ Crypto Module is classified as a multi-chip standalone software
cryptographic module for the purposes of FIPS 140-3. As such, it is tested on specific
operating systems and computer platforms. The cryptographic boundary includes the
module running on selected platforms running selected operating systems. The module is
packaged as a library with an object file containing the module’s entire executable code.
The module relies on the physical security provided by the host computer in which it runs.

The tested operational environment physical perimeter of the module is the case of the
general-purpose computer, which encloses the hardware running the module. The
physical interfaces for the module are the physical interfaces of the computer running the
module, such as the keyboard, monitor and network interface.

The cryptographic module boundary is the linked object file within the final application.

The underlying logical interface to the module is the API, documented in the Dell
BSAFE™ Crypto Module Developers Guide. The module accepts Control Input through
the API calls. Data Input and Output are provided in the variables passed with the API
calls. Status Output is provided through the returns and error codes documented for each
call. This is illustrated in Figure 1 Cryptographic boundary.

2.3 Operational Environments

For FIPS 140-3 validation, the module is tested by an accredited FIPS 140-3 testing
laboratory on the following operational environments:

# Operating System

Hardware Platform Processor

PAA /
Acceleration

1  Dell PowerMaxOS 10  PowerMax storage
array compute node

Intel Xeon® Gold 5218

Yes

2 Dell PowerMaxOS 10  PowerMax storage
array compute node

Intel Xeon Gold 5218

No

3 Dell PowerMaxOS 10  PowerMax storage
array compute node

Intel Xeon Gold 6240L

Yes

4 Dell PowerMaxOS 10  PowerMax storage
array compute node

Intel Xeon Gold 6240L

No

5  Dell PowerMaxOS 10  PowerMax storage
array compute node

Intel Xeon Gold 6254

Yes

6 Dell PowerMaxOS 10  PowerMax storage
array compute node

Intel Xeon Gold 6254

No

7 Dell PowerMaxOS 10  PowerMax storage
array compute node

Intel Xeon Platinum 8280L Yes

8 Dell PowerMaxOS 10  PowerMax storage
array compute node

Intel Xeon Platinum 8280L No

Table 2

Tested Operational Environments

6

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

Dell BSAFE affirms compliance for the following operational environment:

# Operating System

Hardware Platform

1

SUSE® Linux Enterprise Server 15 SP2

Intel x86_64 (64-bit)

Table 3 Vendor Affirmed Operational Environments

Note: When running the module on an affirmed platform, no
assurances are made about the minimum strength of generated SSPs,
such as keys.

2.4 Cryptographic Algorithms

The following table lists the Dell BSAFE™ Crypto Module Approved algorithms, with the
appropriate standards and CAVP validation certificate numbers:

CAVP
Cert

Algorithm and
Standard

Mode/Method

Description / Key
Size(s) / Key
Strength(s)

Use / Function

A1204

A1204

A1204

A1204

AES
SP 900-38A

AES
SP 800-38C

AES
SP 800-38D

AES
SP 800-38E

A1204

RSA
FIPS 186-4

ECB, CBC and CTR

128, 192, and 256
bit key sizes

Symmetric
encryption

CCM

128, 192, and 256
bit key sizes

Symmetric
encryption

GCM with automatic
IV1 generation

128, 192, and 256
bit key sizes

Symmetric
encryption

XTS2

128 and 256 bit key
sizes

Symmetric
encryption

2048 to 4096-bit
key size

Key generation,
signature
generation, and
signature
verification

Key generation.
Signature generation
and signature
verification with
SHA2-224,
SHA2-256,
SHA2-384,
SHA2-512,
SHA2-512/224,
SHA2-512/256.
Signature verification
with SHA-1.

A1204

CVL
FIPS 186-4

RSASP13 component 2048-bit key size

A1204

CVL
SP 800-56B Rev. 2

RSADP4 component

2048-bit key size

Signature
generation

Asymmetric
encryption

Table 4

 Approved Algorithms

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

7

CAVP
Cert

Algorithm and
Standard

Mode/Method

Description / Key
Size(s) / Key
Strength(s)

Use / Function

A1204

A1204

A1204

A1204

A1204

KDF
SP 800-132

KTS
SP 800-38F

DRBG6
SP 800-90A

DRBG
SP 800-90A

SHS
FIPS 180-4

PBKDF25

112-256 bits
strength

Key derivation

AES Key Wrap, and
Key Wrap with
Padding.

AES-CTR

128, 192, and 256
bit key sizes

Key wrapping

128, 192, and 256
bit strengths

Random bit
generation

HMAC SHA2-512

256 bits strength

112-256 bits
strength

SHA-1, SHA2-224,
SHA2-256,
SHA2-384,
SHA2-512,
SHA2-512/224,
SHA2-512/256

Random bit
generation

Message digesting

A1204

HMAC7
FIPS 198-1

HMAC with SHA-1,
SHA2-256,
SHA2-384, SHA2-512

112-256 bits
strength

MAC generation

A1204

KAS-IFC-SSC /
SP 800-56B Rev.2

VA8

VA

CKG of symmetric
keys/
SP 800-133 Rev. 2

CKG of asymmetric
keys/
SP 800-133 Rev. 2

Schemes: KAS1
Key Generation
methods: An RSA
key pair with a private
key in the basic
format, with a random
public exponent.

Direct output of
approved DRBG used
to generate 128, 192,
or 256 bit AES keys.
FIPS 140-3
Implementation
Guidance, IG D.H.

Direct output of
approved DRBG used
to generate prime
number seeds and
private key values.
FIPS 140-3
Implementation
Guidance, IG D.H.

2048 to 8192-bit
key size

Shared secret
generation

128-256 bits
strength

 Key Generation

128-256 bits
strength

 Key Generation

Table 4

 Approved Algorithms (continued)

1Initialization Vector (IV).
2AES in XTS mode is approved only for hardware storage applications. The two keys concatenated to create the single
double-length key must be checked to ensure they are different.

8

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

3RSA signature primitive 1 (RSASP1).
4RSA decryption primitive (RSADP). RSADP shall only be used within the context of an SP800-56B rev 2 Key Transport
Scheme (KTS).
5Password-based key derivation function 2 (PBKDF2). As defined in the NIST Special Publication 800-132, PBKDF2 can
be used in the Approved Mode of Operation when used with Approved symmetric key and message digest algorithms. For
more information, see Crypto Officer Guidance.
6Deterministic Random Number Generator (DRBG).
7Hash-based Message Authentication Code (MAC).
8Vendor-affirmed algorithms.

The following table lists the Dell BSAFE™ Crypto Module Non-Approved algorithms, not
allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation:

Algorithm / Function

Use / Function

MD5

 Message Digesting

DES31 (three key) in ECB and CBC modes

 Symmetric encryption

Table 5 Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation

1Triple Data Encryption Standard.

Note: BSAFE Crypto Module does not support any non-approved but
allowed algorithms, nor non-approved but allowed algorithms with no
security claimed.

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

9

2.5 Certification Levels

Dell BSAFE™ Crypto Module is validated with an overall Security Level 1 for FIPS 140-3,
with Security Level 1 for each individual area. See Table 1, Security Levels for additional
details.

2.6 Modes of Operation

The module can operate in Approved mode or Non-Approved mode. The mode selected
affects which algorithms are available for use. The following section details the algorithms
available in each mode:

•

In the Approved mode (BCM_MODE_FIPS), the module allows the cryptographic
algorithms listed in Table 4, Approved Algorithms. Non-Approved algorithms not
allowed in the approved mode of operation are not available.

• Non-Approved mode (BCM_MODE_NON_FIPS), the module allows all available

cryptographic algorithms.

Approved mode is also referred to as FIPS 140-3 mode in the product documentation.

In each mode of operation, the complete set of services listed in this Security Policy are
available to the Crypto Officer.

Note: Critical Security Parameters must not be shared between
modes. For example, a key generated in the Approved mode of
operation must not be exported and then imported to an application
running in Non-Approved mode.

2.6.1 Module Mode Configuration

The module operator must provide a definition of the configuration function
BCM_get_config(BCM_CONFIG *config) that is called by the module during
startup.

The Module mode is set in the operator's function by assigning a value to
config->mode.

To start the module in the Approved mode of operation, the operator's configuration
function should assign the value BCM_MODE_FIPS to the mode member of the
configuration structure:

BCM_STATUS BCM_get_config(BCM_CONFIG *config)
{
  // Start the module in the Approved mode of operation
  config->mode = BCM_MODE_FIPS;
  // ...
  return BCM_OK;
}

To start the module in the Non-Approved mode of operation, the operator's configuration
function must assign the value BCM_MODE_NON_FIPS to the mode member of the
configuration structure:

10

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

BCM_STATUS BCM_get_config(BCM_CONFIG *config)
{
  // Start the module in the Non-Approved mode of operation
  config->mode = BCM_MODE_NON_FIPS;
  // ...
  return BCM_OK;
}

Note: The default value of the mode member is set to BCM_MODE_FIPS. Therefore, if the
operator's configuration function does not set the mode, the module starts in the
Approved mode of operation.

Once the module is initialized and the pre-operational self-tests (POST) have completed
successfully, the overall operating mode of the module can be changed by calling the
BCM_module_configure() API.

2.6.2 Approved Mode Indicator

The module uses an approved mode indicator combined with a return status code from
an approved security service to indicate the use of an approved service.

Approved security services that operate on a BCM_CTX use the API
BCM_ctx_is_fips() with a return code of 1 as an indicator that the context is
operating in the approved mode.

Approved security services that operate on a BCM_KEY use the API
BCM_key_is_fips() with a return code of 1 as an indicator that the key is operating in
the approved mode.

2.7 Operating the Cryptographic Module

An application using BSAFE Crypto Module is linked to the module file, libdellbcm.a,
which is then loaded and initialized as part of the application that linked it.

The module initializes itself automatically when loaded, and runs the POST automatically
regardless of the mode of operation at startup. If the self-tests complete successfully, the
cryptographic services of the module can be used.

The module does not support degraded operation. If any self-test fails the cryptographic
services of the module are disabled for both modes of operation.

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

11

3 Cryptographic Module Interfaces

BSAFE Crypto Module is a software module that provides APIs only as logical interfaces.
Physical ports and interfaces are not provided by the module.

The module conforms to the FIPS 140-3 Security Level 1 requirements for Cryptographic
Module Interfaces and does not support a Trusted Channel Interface.

3.1 Ports and Interfaces

The following table lists the ports and interfaces, and the data that passes over each:

Physical
Port

Logical
Interface

Data that passes over port/interface

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Data input

Service inputs

Data output

Service outputs

Control input

Configuration parameters for the API
BCM_module_configure() which sets the mode of operation.

Status output

Mode of operation indicator, from either the
BCM_ctx_is_fips() or BCM_key_is_fips() APIs.
The state of the module from the API BCM_module_state().
For other API status, refer to the Outputs column of
Table 7, Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output.

Table 6 Ports and Interfaces

Note: The module does not support a Control Output interface.

12

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

4 Roles, Services and Authentication

BSAFE Crypto Module meets all FIPS 140-3 Security Level 1 requirements for Roles,
Services and Authentication, implementing only the Crypto Officer role. As allowed by
FIPS 140-3, the module does not support identification or authentication of this role.
There is no maintenance role, cryptographic bypass capability, or self-initiated
cryptographic output. The module does not allow concurrent operators.

4.1 Crypto Officer Role

The Crypto Officer role is responsible for installing and loading the module and has
access to all services provided by the module. This role is assumed automatically once
the module has been loaded and the POST have run successfully. The POST are
automatically run when the module is first loaded. They can be run manually at any time
by calling BCM_module_selftest().

4.2 Services

For each service, the Approved Mode indicator is obtained by checking the service status
and the Approved mode of the Context or Key. A return status code indicates the service
status. For information about individual functions that implement each service, see the
Dell BSAFE™ Crypto Module Developers Guide.

4.2.1 Roles, Services, Inputs and Outputs

The following is a list of services available to the single Crypto Officer (CO) role.

Role Service

Input

Output

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

AES Encryption

Plaintext

Ciphertext, Status

AES Decryption

Ciphertext

Plaintext, Status

Message Digest

Message

Digest, Status

MAC Generation

Secret, Message

MAC, Status

MAC Verification

Secret, Message, MAC

Verify Status, Status

DRBG Initialization

Random Number
Generation

Key Generation

-

-

-

Key Import

Key text

Key Export

Key Deletion

-

-

-

Random Bytes, Status

Status

Status

Key text, Status

-

Table 7 Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

13

Role Service

Input

Output

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

Key Derivation

Secret

Key text, Status

Key Wrap

-

Wrapped key text, Status

Key Unwrap

Wrapped key text

Status

Key Encapsulation
(decrypt)

Digital Signature
Generation

Encapsulated key text

Status

Message Digest

Signature, Status

Digital Signature
Verification

Message Digest,
Signature

Verify Status, Status

Show Module
Version Information

Show Status

Self-test

-

-

-

Module Version, Status

Module Status

Status

Table 7 Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

4.2.2 Approved Services

The following is a list of approved services provided by the module:

Service

Description

Approved
Security
Functions

Keys and/or
SSPs

Roles

Access
rights to
Keys and/or
SSPs

 Indicator 1

AES Encryption

AES Decryption

Encrypt with
symmetric cipher

AES

Decrypt with
symmetric cipher

AES

AES keys

AES keys

Message Digest

Digest a
message

SHS

-

CO

CO

CO

E

E

-

MAC Generation

MAC Verification

Generate a
Message
Authentication
Code

Verify a Message
Authentication
Code

Table 8 Approved Services

HMAC

MAC secret

CO

W, E, Z

HMAC

MAC secret

CO

W, E, Z

K

K

C

C

C

14

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

Service

Description

Approved
Security
Functions

Keys and/or
SSPs

Roles

Access
rights to
Keys and/or
SSPs

 Indicator 1

DRBG Initialization Prepare for

DRBG

random number
or key generation

Random Number
Generation

Generate a
random number

DRBG

Key Generation

Generate a
symmetric or
asymmetric key

CKG
RSA Key
generation

-

-

-

Key Import

Key Export

Key Deletion

Key Derivation

Key Wrap

Key Unwrap

Import a key into
the module

Export a key
from the module

Delete a key
from the module

Derive key text
given input
secret

Encrypt an AES
key with an AES
key encryption
key

Decrypt an AES
key with an AES
key encryption
key

Table 8 Approved Services

Entropy State,
DRBG entropy
input, DRBG
seed, CTR DRBG
key value, CTR
DRBG V value,
HMAC DRBG key
value, HMAC
DRBG V value

DRBG entropy
input, DRBG
seed, CTR DRBG
key value, CTR
DRBG V value,
HMAC DRBG key
value, HMAC
DRBG V value

AES keys,
RSA keys

AES keys,
RSA keys

AES keys,
RSA keys

AES keys,
RSA keys

CO

G

C

CO

E

C

CO

G

CO

W

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

R

Z

W, E, Z
R, Z

E

R

E

W

P

C

K

K

C

K

K

KDF (PBKDF2) KDF secret

Derived key text

KTS

KTS

AES key
(wrapping key)
AES key
(wrapped key)

AES key
(wrapping key)
AES key
(unwrapped key)

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

15

Keys and/or
SSPs

Roles

Access
rights to
Keys and/or
SSPs

 Indicator 1

Service

Description

Key Encapsulation
(decrypt)

Decrypt an AES
or RSA key with
an RSA key
encryption key

Approved
Security
Functions

CVL (RSADP)

Digital Signature
Generation

Sign a message RSA

(signature
generation),
CVL (RSASP1)

RSA key
(key encryption
key)

AES key or RSA
key
(decrypted key)

RSA keys
(private key)

CO

E

W

CO

E

CO

E

Digital Signature
Verification

Verify the
signature for a
message

RSA
(signature
verification)

RSA keys
(public key)

Key Agreement

Establish a
shared secret

KAS-IFC-SSC

RSA keys
(peer public key)

CO

W, Z

RSA keys
(peer public key,
private key)

Show Module
Version Information

Provide module
version to user

Show Status

Self-test

Provide module
status to user

Run module
self-tests
on-demand

-

-

-

-

CO

CO

HMAC

Integrity test key

CO

Table 8 Approved Services

1The indicator for the service is one of the following:

E

-

-

-

K

K

K

K

-

-

-

C: The Approved Mode indicator is obtained by checking the service return status code and the mode of the operation's

context by calling BCM_ctx_is_fips(). For approved services, the FIPS indicator function will return 1.

K: The Approved Mode indicator is obtained by checking the service return status code and the mode of the operation's key

by calling BCM_key_is_fips(). For approved services, the FIPS indicator function will return 1.

16

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

4.2.3 Non-Approved Services

The following is a list of non-approved services provided by the module:

Service

Description

Algorithm Accessed Role

Indicator1

Message Digest Digest a
message

MD5

Symmetric
Encryption

Symmetric
Decryption

Encrypt with
symmetric cipher

DES3 with ECB and
CBC modes

Decrypt with
symmetric cipher

DES3 with ECB and
CBC modes

CO

CO

CO

C

K

K

Table 9 Non-Approved Services

1The indicator for the service is one of the following:

C: The Approved Mode indicator is obtained by checking the service return status code and the

mode of the operation's context by calling BCM_ctx_is_fips(). For these non-approved
services the FIPS indicator function will return 0.

K: The Approved Mode indicator is obtained by checking the service return status code and the

mode of the operation's key by calling BCM_key_is_fips(). For these non-approved services
the FIPS indicator function will return 0.

4.3 Operation Authentication

The module does not implement authentication. The Crypto Officer role is implicitly
assumed once the module is loaded, and cleared on module unload.

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

17

5 Software/Firmware Security

This section covers integrity measures to demonstrate protection of the software
component of BSAFE Crypto Module, which is the whole of the module.

5.1 Approved Integrity Techniques

The module is an object file. When the module object file is created, a MAC is calculated
over the executable code and static data sections, with the resulting integrity block
embedded into the object file. The built-in Integrity Test Key is used as the MAC secret.

During the pre-operational software integrity test when the module is loaded, a MAC is
again calculated over the executable code and static data. The resulting MAC is
compared to the integrity block calculated when the module was created.

If the MAC differs, the pre-operational software integrity test fails, the POST fails, the
module enters the BCM_MODULE_STATE_INTEGRITY_FAILED state and cannot be
used for any cryptographic operation. Any operation attempted will return the
BCM_ERROR_FIPS_INTEGRITY_FAILURE error status code.

The only way to clear this error condition is to unload the module and load it again.

The pre-operational software integrity test uses HMAC-SHA2-256.The Cryptographic
Algorithm Self-Tests (CASTs) are run prior to the pre-operational software integrity test to
ensure the MAC implementation used in the integrity test has been self-tested before it is
used in the pre-operational software integrity test.

5.2 On Demand Integrity Test Method

The module provides the BCM_module_selftest() API for on-demand integrity
testing.

5.3 Executable Module Form

The module is built as a single ELF object file with an embedded FIPS 140-3 integrity
signature. The ELF object file exports symbols for the operations it supports.

18

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

6 Operational Environment

BSAFE Crypto Module is FIPS 140-3 validated to operate in a modifiable environment.

The module is provided for operating systems running on a general purpose computer
platform based on an Intel CPU.

6.1 Compliance

Each instance of the module that is loaded within an operating system maintains its own
instance of internal SSPs. Any additional SSPs loaded into a given instance of the
module are not available to other instances.

The supported operating environments provide process isolation, with resource and
memory protection. Each instance of the module is isolated from others such that SSPs
can only be accessed or modified in the module to which they belong.

BSAFE Crypto Module does not spawn additional processes.

6.2 Laboratory Validated Operational Environments

For FIPS 140-3 validation, the module is tested by an accredited FIPS 140-3 testing
laboratory. For the tested operational environments, refer to Table 2, Tested Operational
Environments.

6.3 Affirmation of Compliance for Other Operational Environments

For the vendor affirmed operational environments, refer to Table 3, Vendor Affirmed
Operational Environments.

The Cryptographic Module Validation Program (CMVP) makes no statement as to the
correct operation of the module or the security strengths of the generated keys when a
specific operational environment that is not listed on the validation certificate is used.

6.4 Configuration Restrictions

The module runs on a General Purpose Computer running one of the operational
environments listed in Tested Operational Environments and Vendor Affirmed
Operational Environments.

Each supported operational environment manages its own processes and memory in a
logically separated manner. The process management setting is not configurable on the
supported operational environments.

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

19

7 Physical Security

BSAFE Crypto Module is classified as a multi-chip standalone cryptographic module. The
module is comprised of software only, validated at FIPS 140-3 Security Level 1, and does
not claim any physical security.

8 Non-invasive Security

BSAFE Crypto Module does not implement any non-invasive mitigation techniques.

20

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

9 Sensitive Security Parameters Management

The following tables list the SSPs present in the module, the relevant standards and
details of how they are used and accessed.

Name

VM

Table 10 Storage Areas

Description

Memory in the Operational
Environment of the module.

Type

Volatile

Protection of the SSPs in volatile memory is provided by the operating environment which
isolates the memory of separate processes

Name

From

App Write

Operator
Application in
TOEPP1

App Read

VM

To

VM

Format Type

Distribution
Type

Entry Type

Plaintext

Manual

Electronic

Operator
Application in
TOEPP

Plaintext

Manual

Electronic

Table 11 SSP Input-Output Methods

1The module's Tested Operational Environment's Physical Perimeter. The TOEPP for the BSAFE Crypto Module is the
host computer.

Sensitive security parameters are input and output using the module APIs. No security
function or algorithm is used to transport the data.

Operator
Initiated
Capability

N/A

N/A

Method

Description

Rationale

Immediate

Temporary SSPs are zeroized
immediately after use

Intermediate values are
zeroised at the end of a
calculation

Implicit

Explict

SSPs are zeroized when the
cryptographic object is deleted
by the module

SSPs are zeroized when the
BCM_CTX object is deleted

SSPs are zeroized when the
associated key or
cryptographic object is deleted
by the application

SSPs are zeroized when the
application no longer needs
them

API call to
delete object

Table 12 SSP Zeroization Methods

BSAFE Crypto Module encapsulates symmetric and asymmetric keys as BCM_KEY
objects. For multi-part cryptographic operations, the module defines several object types
to encapsulate the intermediate state of the operation.

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

21

Examples are BCM_CIPHER objects for symmetric ciphers and BCM_MAC objects for
message authentication codes. These objects are created explicitly by the user with
function calls to the module.

The module defines a BCM_CTX object which can contain SSPs in the form of internal
random number generator (RNG) state and associated entropy state. A single BCM_CTX
is created automatically when the module starts and is retained by the module as the
default context. BCM_CTX objects can be created explicitly by the user with function calls
to the module.

To zeroize all unprotected SSPs and key components, perform the following procedure:

1. For each object, delete all:

1. BCM_CIPHER cryptographic objects with a call to BCM_cipher_delete().
2. BCM_MAC cryptographic objects with a call to BCM_mac_delete().
3. BCM_DIGEST cryptographic objects with a call to BCM_digest_delete().
4. BCM_KEY objects with a call to BCM_key_delete().
5. BCM_CTX objects with a call to BCM_ctx_delete().

2. Delete the default context created at startup. To do this, unload the module or call

BCM_module_unload().

Key / SSP Name /
Type

Strength

Security Function
and Cert. Number

Generation

Import /
Export

Establis
hment

Storage

Zeroisation

Use & related keys

RSA keys
(public key / PSP;
private key / CSP)

112 -
150
bits

RSA
KAS-IFC-SSC
(A1204)

CKG SP 800-133 Rev. 2.
FIPS 186-4 method

AES, KTS
(A1204)

CKG, SP 800-133 Rev. 2.
Direct output of approved
DRBG.

HMAC
(A1204)

N/A
(Application input)

KDF (PBKDF2)
(A1204)

N/A
(Application input)

KDF (PBKDF2)
(A1204)

PBKDF2

App
Write,
App
Read

App
Write,
App
Read

App
Write

App
Write

App
Read

N/A

VM

Explicit

N/A

VM

Explicit

Signature
generation and
verification.
Key agreement.

Symmetric
encryption.
Key wrapping.

N/A

VM

Immediate

MAC generation
and verification

N/A

VM

Immediate

Key derivation

N/A

VM

Immediate

Key derivation

DRBG, CKG
(A1204)

Obtained from SP
800-90B compliant
entropy source

N/A

N/A

VM

Implicit

Random bit
generation

AES keys
(CSP)

MAC secret
(CSP)

KDF secret
(CSP)

Derived key text
(CSP)

CTR DRBG key
value
(CSP)

128,
192,
and
256
bits

128 -
256
bits

112 -
256
bits

112 -
256
bits

128,
192,
and
256
bits

Table 13 SSPs

22

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

Key / SSP Name
(continued)/ Type

Strength

Security Function
and Cert. Number

Generation

Import /
Export

Establis
hment

Storage

Zeroisation

Use & related keys

CTR DRBG V
value
(CSP)

HMAC DRBG key
value
(CSP)

HMAC DRBG V
value
(CSP)

DRBG entropy
input
(CSP)

DRBG seed
(CSP)

Entropy state
(CSP)

128
bits

256
bits

256
bits

128,
192,
and
256
bits

128,
192,
and
256
bits

256
bits

DRBG, CKG
(A1204)

DRBG, CKG
(A1204)

DRBG, CKG
(A1204)

DRBG
(A1204)

DRBG
(A1204)

DRBG
(A1204)

Obtained from SP
800-90B compliant
entropy source

Obtained from SP
800-90B compliant
entropy source

Obtained from SP
800-90B compliant
entropy source

Obtained from SP
800-90B compliant
entropy source

Obtained from SP
800-90B compliant
entropy source

N/A

N/A

VM

Implicit

N/A

N/A

VM

Implicit

N/A

N/A

VM

Implicit

N/A

N/A

VM

Implicit

N/A

N/A

VM

Implicit

Internal state of SP
800-90B compliant
entropy source. Obtained
from noise source.

N/A

N/A

VM

Implicit

Random bit
generation

Random bit
generation

Random bit
generation

Random bit
generation

Random bit
generation

Random bit
generation

Integrity test key
(not considered an
SSP)

144
bits

HMAC
(A1204)

Built-in constant value.

N/A

N/A

N/A

Self-test

Built
into
module
image

Table 13 SSPs

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

23

9.1 Deterministic Random Bit Generator

BSAFE Crypto Module provides the following approved DRBGs for use in both Approved
and Non-Approved modes:

DRBG

Entropy Obtained (bits)

CTR DRBG with AES-128

CTR DRBG with AES-192

CTR DRBG with AES-2561

HMAC DRBG with SHA2-512

128

192

256

256

Table 14 Approved Random Bit Generators

1CTR DRBG with AES-256 is the default DRBG.

Use

Details

RSA key-pair generation

Prime generation, and Miller-Rabin prime number testing1
Blinding of random values

RSA key validation

Prime recovery testing2

Symmetric key generation

Direct generation of symmetric keys

Initialization vector generation

Direct generation of IVs for symmetric encryption

RSA PKCS #1 PSS signing

Generation of random value for message encoding

Table 15 DRBG Output Uses

1All seeds for asymmetric key generation are generated using the direct output of the approved DRBG.
2For details refer to NIST SP 900-56B Rev. 2, Appendix C.

9.2 Entropy Sources

BSAFE Crypto Module provides an entropy source that is internal to the module. This
entropy source generates entropy that is used to seed the Approved RBGs.

24

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

The entropy source is provided as an ENT (NP) that is compliant with SP 800-90B, and is
estimated to provide a min entropy of 7.96875 bits per byte.

Entropy
Sources

Minimum Number of
Bits of Entropy

Details

Execution
time jitter

Execution
time jitter

Execution
time jitter

Execution
time jitter

256

128

192

256

Instantiation of HMAC DRBG

Instantiation of CTR DRBG with AES-128

Instantiation of CTR DRBG with AES-192

Instantiation of CTR DRBG with AES-256

Execution
time jitter

DRBG instantiation
bits

Application calls BCM_random_seed()

Execution
time jitter

64

Application calls
BCM_secure_random_bytes()

Table 16 Non-Deterministic Random Bit Generation Specification

The BCM_CTX object manages an approved DRBG and an Entropy NDRBG. The first call
to a random number generation service using the BCM_CTX object instantiates the
Entropy NDRBG and the DRBG. At instantiation, the DRBG issues a GET call to the
Entropy NDRBG for the number of bits of entropy equivalent to the security strength of
the DRBG.

A call to the BCM_random_seed() API with the BCM_CTX object resets the DRBG
seed. The DRBG issues a GET call to the Entropy NDRBG for the number of bits of
entropy equivalent to the security strength of the DRBG.

A call to the BCM_secure_random_bytes() API with the BCM_CTX object adds a
fixed number of bits of entropy to the DRBG state before the DRBG generates output.
The DRBG issues a GET call to the Entropy NDRBG for 64 bits of entropy.

The entropy is collected from the jitter in the CPU execution time for performing an HMAC
over the state and previous noise sample. By collecting multiple jitter samples, a bit
stream that meets the statistical measurements which indicate a bit stream is random, is
produced and whitened.

If the bits of entropy are not available on a GET call then the Entropy NDRBG generates
an error status code that is returned to the application by the random number generation
service.

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

25

9.3 Transition periods

The module addresses the requirements of FIPS 140-3. Transitioning the use of
cryptographic algorithms and key lengths (NIST SP 800-131A Rev. 2) provides more
specific guidance in regards to transition periods or time frames where an algorithm or
key length transitions from Approved to Non-Approved.

None of the Approved algorithms provided by the module are affected by transition
periods or time frames.

Recommendation for Key Management Part 1 (NIST SP 800-57 Part 1 Rev. 5) specifies
security strengths that are acceptable for protecting data going forward. Application
writers should consider these acceptable use dates with respect to the expected
deployment lifetime of the application and the life of the data being protected. This life
depends on the type of key and use, but are from 1-3 years. Refer to NIST SP 800-57,
Part 1 for more explanation..

Strength

Last Date Acceptable

< 112

112

>= 128

Already disallowed

31 Dec 2030

 Acceptable to 2031 and beyond

Table 17 Security Strength Time Frames

The correspondence between security strength, algorithms and key size is specified in
the following:

• Recommendation for Pair-wise Key Establishment Using Integer Factorization

Cryptography (NIST SP 800-56B Rev. 2)

• Recommendation for Key Management Part 1 (NIST SP 800-57 Part 1 Rev. 5)

• Recommendation for Applications Using Approved Hash Algorithms

(NIST SP 800-107 Rev. 1).

Strength

Symmetric

RSA

Hash

MAC and KDF

< 80

112

128

192

256

1024

SHA-1

3DES

2048

SHA2-224

AES-128

3072

SHA2-256  SHA-1

AES-192

7680

SHA2-384  SHA2-224, SHA2-512/224

AES-256

15360

SHA2-512  SHA2-256, SHA2-512/256, SHA2-384,

SHA2-512

Table 18  Correspondence between Security Strength, Algorithms and Key Size

26

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

10 Self-tests

BSAFE Crypto Module performs a number of pre-operational and conditional self-tests to
ensure proper operation.

The cryptographic services of the module are disabled when the self-tests are running.

• When self-tests are running all cryptographic operations fail and return the

•

BCM_ERROR_FIPS_MODULE_NOT_READY return status code.
The BCM_module_selftest() status interface returns a state of
BCM_MODULE_STATE_NOT_READY.

The BCM_module_selftest() API runs self-tests on demand after the module has
loaded. The on-demand self-tests are the software integrity test and the cryptographic
algorithm self-tests. The module can also be reloaded to execute the self-tests
on-demand.

If a self-test that is run by BCM_module_selftest() fails, the module enters the
self-test error state.

For all self-test failures, the library notifies the user through the return status codes for the
API.

10.1 Pre-operational Self-tests

The following table lists the pre-operational self-tests:

Algorithm

Test Properties

Type

Details

HMAC

KAT

HMAC-SHA2-256
signature:32
bytes
 HMAC secret:18
bytes

Entropy source

1024 noise
samples

RCT and APT

Pre-operational
software integrity
test executes
automatically
when the module
is loaded into
memory

Pre-operational
critical functions
test runs when a
BCM_CTX objects
creates an
entropy source

Table 19 Pre-operational Self-tests

10.1.1 Pre-operational Self-test Notes

If all POST pass, the cryptographic services of the module are enabled and the module
can be used. The BCM_module_state() status interface returns a state of
BCM_MODULE_STATE_READY.

If the pre-operational software integrity test fails, the module enters the self-test error
state.

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

27

The repetition count test (RCT) and adaptive proportion test (APT) are defined in SP
800-90B.

The pre-operational software integrity tests used are described in detail in Approved
Integrity Techniques.

10.2 Conditional Self-tests

The following table lists the conditional self-tests:

Algorithm Test

AES

KTS

128, 192 and
256-bit AES
keys

128, 192 and
256-bit AES
keys

Type

KAT

KAT

DRBG
(AES-CTR)

128, 192 and
256-bit strength

KAT

DRBG
(AES-CTR)

128, 192 and
256-bit strength

Fault-
Detection
Test

Details

Condition

Encrypt and
decrypt self-tests

Module startup

Wrap and unwrap
self-tests

Module startup

Module startup

Module startup

Random bit
generation
self-tests

SP 800-90A Rev. 1
health test.
Instantiate,
generate, reseed,
uninstantiate tests

DRBG
(HMAC
SHA2-512)

DRBG
(HMAC
SHA2-512)

HMAC
(SHA-1)

HMAC
(SHA2)

KDF

RSA

256-bit strength KAT

Random bit
generation self-test

Module startup

256-bit strength Fault-

Detection
Test

KAT

KAT

KAT

HMAC with
SHA-1

HMAC with
SHA2-256,
SHA2-384,
SHA2-512

PBKDF2 with
SHA2-256,
1000 iterations,
32 byte output

2048-bit RSA
key

KAT

SP 800-90A Rev. 1
health test.
Instantiate,
generate, reseed,
uninstantiate tests

MAC generation
self-test

MAC generation
self-test

Module startup

Module startup

Module startup

Key derivation
self-test

Module startup

RSA signature and
verification
self-tests

Module startup

Table 20 Conditional Self-tests

28

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

Type

KAT

KAT

KAT

Algorithm Test

RSA

2048-bit RSA
key

SHS
(SHA-1)

SHS
(SHA2)

SHA-1

SHA2-224,
SHA2-256,
SHA2-384,
SHA2-512,
SHA2-512/224,
SHA2-512/256

RSA
(key
generation)

2048-bit to
4096-bit signing
keys

PCT

RSA
(key
generation)

2048-bit to
4096-bit
encryption keys

PCT

Details

Condition

RSA encryption
and decryption
self-tests

Module startup

Message digest
generation self-test

Module startup

Message digest
generation self-test

Module startup

RSA sign and
verify

RSA encrypt and
decrypt

Generation of
RSA signature
key pair

Generation of
RSA encryption
key pair

Creation of new
DRBG instance
Reseed of DRBG
instance
Generation of
secure random
bytes

Entropy
source

1 bit of entropy
per byte

Fault-
Detection
Test

Entropy continuous
RCT and APT
testing, as defined
in SP 800-90B

Table 20 Conditional Self-tests

10.2.1 Conditional Self-test Notes

For the KATs, the module includes a set of fixed inputs for each algorithm along with
corresponding pre-calculated expected outputs. The cryptographic algorithm is run with
the fixed inputs and the algorithm outputs are compared with the expected outputs. If
there is any difference the algorithm self-test fails, the CAST fail and the module enters
the self-test error state.

If a pair-wise consistency test fails, the key-generation operation fails and returns an error
indicator through a return status code. The error is cleared by reattempting the
key-generation operation.

If the Entropy source self-tests fail then the entropy collection operation returns an error
indicator through a return status code. The error cannot be cleared from the NDRBG
object. A new NDRBG object must be created to collect entropy.

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

29

10.3 Error States

The following table lists the error states:

State Name

Description

Indicator

Self-test Error Module pre-operational

integrity test failure

Self-test Error CAST failure

Self-test Error On-demand integrity test

failure

Cryptographic services return
BCM_ERROR_FIPS_INTEGRITY_FAILURE error
code.
The BCM_module_state() status interface
returns a state of

BCM_MODULE_STATE_INTEGRITY_FAILED.

Cryptographic services return
BCM_ERROR_FIPS_SELFTEST_FAILURE error
code.
The BCM_module_state() status interface
returns a state of

BCM_MODULE_STATE_SELFTEST_FAILED.

Cryptographic services return
BCM_ERROR_FIPS_INTEGRITY_FAILURE
error code.
The BCM_module_state() status interface
returns a state of
BCM_MODULE_STATE_INTEGRITY_FAILED.

Self-test Error On-demand CAST failure Cryptographic services return

BCM_ERROR_FIPS_SELFTEST_FAILURE error
code.
The BCM_module_state() status interface
returns a state of
BCM_MODULE_STATE_SELFTEST_FAILED.

Table 21 Error States

When the module enters the self-test error state then cryptographic services for the
module can be re-enabled only by reloading the module.

30

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

11 Life-cycle Assurance

11.1 Installation, Initialization, Startup, Operation and Maintenance

11.1.1 Installation

The module is linked into the application at compile time, and installed as part of the
target application. There is no physical installation, operation or maintenance of the
module.

11.1.2 Initialization

There are no specific initialization steps required for the module.

11.1.3 Startup

The module is started by starting the application that includes it. The module uses
operating system services to perform the module startup when the application is started.
This module startup includes running the pre-operational integrity test.

Before cryptographic services are made available by the module, the pre-operational
integrity tests must complete successfully. These ensure that the application has made no
modification to the module as part of its development or installation. For more information
about the pre-operational integrity test, see Software/Firmware Security.

11.1.4 Maintenance

Maintenance applies only to the application maintainers. If modifications are made to the
application, such as a new version or patch to the application, the module’s
pre-operational integrity test ensures that the module contained within is unaltered.
Application writers should not attempt to modify the module ELF object file as the module
will refuse to load or perform cryptographic operations.

11.2 Crypto Officer Guidance

For details of the administrative functions, security parameters, and logical interfaces
available to the Crypto Officer, refer to Crypto Officer Role.

The following sections detail the requirements for algorithm use in the Approved Mode of
Operation.

11.2.1 Module Management

General Crypto Officer Guidance

Users should take care to zeroize SSPs when they are no longer needed. BSAFE Crypto
Module objects should be deleted when no longer needed, which will zeroize sensitive
data managed by the module. User variables containing SSP data on the stack or heap
should be zeroized after use or before going out of scope.

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

31

11.2.2 Random Number Generation Operations

Using the CTR DRBG with AES-256 is recommended as it is fast and provides 256 bits of
cryptographic strength, so it is suitable for all purposes. This is the module default DRBG.

11.2.3 Key Generation

When using an approved DRBG to generate keys, the security strength of the DRBG
must be at least as great as the security strength of the key being generated. For details
about the comparable security strengths of symmetric block ciphers and asymmetric key
algorithms refer to Table 2 of SP 800-57 Part 1 Rev. 5.

The module’s default DRBG provides a security strength as great as that of any
supported keys.

11.2.4 Symmetric Key Operations

GCM Mode Ciphers

When using GCM feedback mode for symmetric encryption, the authentication tag length
and authenticated data length may be specified as input parameters, but the IV must not
be specified. For compliance with IG C.H scenario 2 it must be generated internally. The
generated IV is fully random, generated by the module's approved DRBG, with a default
length of 96 bits. No special considerations are required provided the system has
sufficient entropy.

XTS Mode Ciphers

AES in XTS mode is approved only for hardware storage applications.

The data encryption key and tweak key components of the double-length XTS key must
be checked to ensure they are different. This check is performed automatically by the
module.

Triple DES

Triple DES is not available as an approved algorithm in the Approved Mode of Operation.
When Triple DES is used in Non-Approved mode, the amount of data that can be
encrypted is restricted to 216 64-bit blocks.

11.2.5 Asymmetric Key Operations

In the following, Protect refers to cryptographically protecting data for later use, e.g.
signing, encrypting or wrapping. Process refers to processing previously protected data,
e.g. verifying, decrypting or unwrapping.

Purpose

RSA modulus length

Note

Protect and Process

2048, 3072, 4096

Sizes approved in FIPS 186-4 and
FIPS 140-3 IG. (CAVP validated)

Table 22 Approved RSA modulus length for digital signatures

32

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

Purpose

RSA modulus length

Note

Process only

1024

May be used for verification only.

Table 22 Approved RSA modulus length for digital signatures

11.2.6 Digital Signatures

Keys used for digital signature generation and verification shall not be used for any other
purpose. The module generates or loads keys with a particular purpose that is either
signing or encryption. The same purpose must always be used for a given key when
exported and loaded into the module again.

The length of an RSA key pair for digital signature generation must be greater than or
equal to 2048 bits. For digital signature verification, the length must be greater than or
equal to 2048 bits, however 1024 bits is allowed for legacy-use only.

RSA keys must pass validation before use. Keys generated by the module will pass
validation. For RSA PKCS #1 PSS, the size relationship between the hash function
output block length (hLen) and the length of the salt (sLen) shall be 0 <= slen <=
hLen.

The SHA-1 digest is disallowed for the generation of digital signatures. The digest must
be an approved algorithm. Verification of signatures with a SHA-1 digest is allowed for
legacy use.

The security strength of both the key and the digest functions shall be chosen to meet or
exceed the required security strength for the digital signature. The security strength of the
digest function should be stronger or the same as that of the key.

11.2.7 Message Authentication Code Operations

HMACs

The key length for an HMAC generation or verification must be between 112 and 256 bits,
inclusive.

For HMAC verification, a length of the secret key greater than or equal to 80 and less
than 112 is allowed for legacy-use.

11.2.8 Key Derivation Function Operations

Password-based Key Derivation

Keys generated using PBKDF2 shall only be used in data storage applications.

The minimum password length is 14 characters, which has a strength of approximately
112 bits, assuming a randomly selected password using the extended ASCII printable
character set is used.

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

33

For random passwords, that is, a string of characters from a given set of characters in
which each character is equally likely to be selected, the strength of the password is given
by

S = L *(log N / log 2)
where:

•

•

N is the number of possible characters. For example:
for the ASCII printable character set N = 95
for the extended ASCII printable character set N = 218.
L is the number of characters.

A password of strength S can be guessed at random with the probability of 1 in 2S.
The minimum length of the randomly-generated portion of the salt is 16 bytes.

The iteration count is as large as possible, with a minimum of 10,000 iterations
recommended.

The derived key size can range from 1 byte to a maximum of (232 - 1) * b, where b is
the digest size of the message digest function in bytes.

Derived keys can be used as specified in SP 800-132, Section 5.4, option 1a.

11.2.9 Key Transport Schemes

Key Wrapping using AES

The key establishment methodology provides between 128 and 256 bits (inclusive) of
encryption strength.

The security strength of the key encryption key must be greater than or equal to the
security strength of the key being wrapped.

11.2.10 Key Validation

Asymmetric keys are validated as they enter the module for use in processing existing
data.

Before the keys are used to protect data, they must be validated. The module provides
services for the validation of RSA keys.

34

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

12 Mitigation of Other Attacks

RSA key operations implement blinding, a reversible way of modifying the input data, so
as to make the operation immune to timing attacks. Blinding has no effect on the
algorithm other than to mitigate attacks on the algorithm.

This mitigation is enabled by default. For optimum security, it should not be disabled.
If necessary it can be disabled with BCM_FLAG_KEY_DISABLE_BLINDING. For more
information, see Timing Attacks on Implementations of Diffie-Hellman, RSA, DSS, and
Other Systems.

RSA signing operations implement a verification step after private key operations. This
verification step is in place to prevent potential faults in optimized Chinese Remainder
Theorem (CRT) implementations. It has no effect on the signature algorithm.
This mitigation is enabled by default. For optimum security, it should not be disabled. If
necessary it can be disabled with BCM_FLAG_KEY_DISABLE_SIGNATURE_CHECK.

For more information, see Breaking public key cryptosystems on tamper resistant devices
in the presence of transient faults: Bao, Deng, Han, Jeng and On the Importance of
Eliminating Errors in Cryptographic Computations.

RSA PKCS #1 v1.5 encryption padding operations are implemented in constant time in
order to make the operation immune to timing attacks.
For this mitigation, constant time padding is built-in and cannot be disabled.
For more information, see. Chosen Ciphertext Attacks Against Protocols Based on the
RSA Encryption Standard PKCS #1.

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

35

13 Acronyms

The following table lists the acronyms used with the module and their definitions:

Term

AES

API

Attack

CAST

CBC

CCM

CMVP

CSP

CTR

Definition

Advanced Encryption Standard. A fast symmetric key algorithm with a 128-bit block,
and keys of lengths 128, 192, and 256 bits. AES replaces DES as the US symmetric
encryption standard.

Application Programming Interface.

An attempt, either a successful or unsuccessful, to break part or all of a cryptosystem.
Attack types include an algebraic attack, birthday attack, brute force attack, chosen
ciphertext attack, chosen plaintext attack, differential cryptanalysis, known plaintext
attack, linear cryptanalysis, and middle person attack.

Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Tests. A test of all cryptographic functions of an
approved cryptographic algorithm that must be performed prior to the first
operational use of the cryptographic algorithm. A CAST may be a KAT, a
comparison test or a fault-detection test.

Cipher Block Chaining. A mode of encryption in which each ciphertext depends upon
all previous ciphertexts. Changing the IV alters the ciphertext produced by
successive encryptions of an identical plaintext.

Counter with Cipher block chaining Message authentication code. A mode of
encryption combining the Counter mode of encryption with Cipher Block Chaining
Message Authentication Code (CBC-MAC) for authentication.

Cryptographic Module Validation Program.

Critical Security Parameters are security related information, such as keys or
passwords, whose disclosure or modification can compromise security.

Counter Mode. A mode of encryption which turns a block cipher into a stream cipher.
It generates the next keystream block by encrypting successive values of a counter.

CTR DRBG

Counter mode Deterministic Random Bit Generator.

Decryption

The conversion of encrypted data, ciphertext, into its original form. Generally, the
reverse of encryption.

DES

DES3

DRBG

ECB

Data Encryption Standard. A symmetric encryption algorithm with a 56-bit key with
eight parity bits.

Triple Data Encryption Standard. A symmetric encryption algorithm with three 56-bit
key with eight parity bits. Also known as Triple-DES and TDEA.

Deterministic Random Bit Generator.

Electronic Codebook. A mode of encryption which divides a message into blocks and
encrypts each block separately.

Encryption

The transformation of plaintext into an apparently less readable form, called
ciphertext, using a mathematical process. The ciphertext can be read by anyone who
has the key and decrypts (undoes the encryption) the ciphertext.

FIPS

Federal Information Processing Standards.

Table 23 Acronyms and Definitions

36

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

Term

GCM

Definition

Galois/Counter Mode. A mode of encryption combining the Counter mode of
encryption with Galois field multiplication for authentication.

HMAC

Keyed-Hashing for Message Authentication Code.

HMAC DRBG HMAC Deterministic Random Bit Generator.

IV

KAT

Key

Initialization Vector. Used as a seed value for an encryption operation.

Known Answer Test.

A string of bits used in cryptography, allowing people to encrypt and decrypt data.
Can be used to perform other mathematical operations as well. Given a cipher, a key
determines the mapping of the plaintext to the ciphertext. The types of keys include
distributed key, private key, public key, secret key, session key, shared key, subkey,
symmetric key, and weak key.

Key wrapping A method of encrypting key data for protection on untrusted storage devices or during

MAC

MD5

transmission over an insecure channel.

Message Authentication Code.

A message digest algorithm, which hashes an arbitrary-length input into a 16-byte
digest. Designed as a replacement for MD4.

NDRBG

Non-Deterministic Random Bit Generator.

NIST

National Institute of Standards and Technology. A division of the US Department of
Commerce (formerly known as the NBS) which produces security and
cryptography-related standards.

OS

Operating System.

PBKDF2

Password-based Key Derivation Function 2. A method of password-based key
derivation, which applies a MAC algorithm to derive the key.

POST

privacy

Pre-Operational Self-Tests.

The state or quality of being secluded from the view or presence of others.

private key

The secret key in public key cryptography. Primarily used for decryption but also used
for encryption with digital signatures.

PRNG

PSP

RNG

RSA

SHA

SHA-1

Pseudo-Random Number Generator.

Public Security Parameters are security related public information (e.g. public keys)
whose modification can compromise the security of the cryptographic module.

Random Number Generator.

Public key (asymmetric) algorithm providing the ability to encrypt data and create and
verify digital signatures. RSA stands for Rivest, Shamir, and Adleman, the developers
of the RSA public key cryptosystem.

Secure Hash Algorithm. An algorithm, which creates a unique hash value for each
possible input. SHA takes an arbitrary input, which is hashed into a 160-bit digest.

A revision to SHA to correct a weakness. It produces 160-bit digests. SHA-1 takes an
arbitrary input, which is hashed into a 20-byte digest.

Table 23 Acronyms and Definitions

Non-Proprietary Security Policy for Dell BSAFE Crypto Module

37

Term

SHA-2

Definition

The NIST-mandated successor to SHA-1, to complement the Advanced Encryption
Standard. It is a family of message digest algorithms (SHA2-224, SHA2-256,
SHA2-384, SHA2-512, SHA2-512/224, and SHA2-512/256), which produce digests
of 224, 256, 384, 512, 224, and 256 bits respectively.

SSP

Sensitive Security Parameters include both Critical Security Parameters (CSP) and
Public Security Parameters (PSP).

Triple-DES

See DES3.

XTS

XEX-based Tweaked Codebook mode with ciphertext stealing. A mode of encryption
used with AES.

Table 23 Acronyms and Definitions

38

© 2024 Dell Australia Pty. Ltd. or its subsidiaries. All rights reserved. Dell, BSAFE, and other trademarks are trademarks
of Dell Australia Pty. Ltd. or its subsidiaries. Other trademarks may be trademarks of their respective owners.

