AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic
CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)

Module Version: bc0c0140FIPS001

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Document Version: 1.3

Last update: 2023-07-21

Prepared for:
Advanced Micro Devices (AMD)
2485 Augustine Drive
Santa Clara, CA 95054
www.amd.com

Prepared by:
atsec information security corporation
9130 Jollyville Road, Suite 260
Austin, TX 78759
www.atsec.com

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

Table of Contents

0. Introduction........................................................................................................... 5

0.1. Overview................................................................................................................................ 5

0.2. This Security Policy Document............................................................................................... 5

0.3. How this Security Policy was Prepared...................................................................................5

1. General.................................................................................................................. 6

2. Cryptographic Module Specification........................................................................7

2.1. Module Overview, Embodiment, Type....................................................................................7

2.2. Module Design, Components and Versions............................................................................7

2.2.1. Components Excluded from Security Requirements........................................................9

2.3. Security Level...................................................................................................................... 10

2.4. Tested Operational Environments........................................................................................10

2.5. Modes of Operation of the Module.......................................................................................10

2.6. Security Functions................................................................................................................ 10

2.6.1. Approved Security Functions......................................................................................... 10

2.6.2. Non-Approved Security Functions Allowed in Approved Services..................................11

2.6.3. Non-Approved Security Functions Allowed in Approved Services with No Security
Claimed................................................................................................................................... 11

2.6.4. Non-Approved Security Functions Not Allowed in Approved Services............................11

2.7. Rules of operation................................................................................................................ 11

3. Cryptographic Module Interfaces...........................................................................12

4. Roles, Services and Authentication.......................................................................13

4.1. Roles.................................................................................................................................... 13

4.2. Authentication...................................................................................................................... 13

4.3. Services............................................................................................................................... 13

4.3.1. Approved Services......................................................................................................... 14

4.3.2. Non-Approved Services................................................................................................. 15

5. Software/Firmware Security..................................................................................16

5.1. Integrity Techniques............................................................................................................ 16

5.2. On-Demand Integrity Test.................................................................................................... 16

6. Operational Environment......................................................................................17

6.1. Applicability......................................................................................................................... 17

6.2. Tested Operational Environments........................................................................................17

6.3. Policy and Requirements...................................................................................................... 17

7. Physical Security.................................................................................................. 18

7.1. General................................................................................................................................ 18

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

2 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

8. Non-Invasive Security........................................................................................... 19

9. Sensitive Security Parameter Management............................................................20

9.1. SSP Generation.................................................................................................................... 20

9.2. SSP Establishment................................................................................................................ 20

9.3. SSP Entry/Output.................................................................................................................. 20

9.4. SSP Storage.......................................................................................................................... 20

9.5. SSP Zeroization.................................................................................................................... 20

9.6. Random Number Generation................................................................................................ 21

10. Self Tests........................................................................................................... 22

10.1. Pre-Operational Self-Tests.................................................................................................. 22

10.1.1. Firmware Integrity Test............................................................................................... 22

10.2. Conditional Tests................................................................................................................ 23

10.2.1. Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Tests.............................................................................23

10.2.2. Periodic/On-Demand Self-Test.....................................................................................23

10.3. Error States........................................................................................................................ 23

11. Life-Cycle Assurance...........................................................................................24

11.1. Delivery and Operation...................................................................................................... 24

11.1.1. Procedures for Secure installation, Initialization, Start-up, and Operation of the Module
................................................................................................................................................ 24

11.1.2. Maintenance Requirements......................................................................................... 25

11.1.3. End of Life................................................................................................................... 26

11.2. Administrator Guidance..................................................................................................... 26

11.3. Non-Administrator Guidance.............................................................................................. 26

12. Mitigation of Other Attacks.................................................................................27

13. Glossary and Abbreviations.................................................................................28

14. References......................................................................................................... 29

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

3 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

List of Tables

Table 1: Security levels........................................................................................................................................... 6

Table 2: Components in the cryptographic boundary............................................................................................. 7

Table 3: Components excluded from the security requirements of FIPS 140-3......................................................9

Table 4: Tested operational environments.............................................................................................................. 9

Table 5: Approved cryptographic algorithms......................................................................................................... 10

Table 6: Ports and interfaces................................................................................................................................ 11

Table 7: Roles, service commands, input, and output..........................................................................................12

Table 8: Services that use approved and allowed algorithms...............................................................................13

Table 9: Sensitive Security Parameters (SSPs).................................................................................................... 19

Table 10: Self-tests............................................................................................................................................... 21

Table 11: Error states........................................................................................................................................... 22

List of Figures

Figure 1: The AMD Ryzen PRO SoC, representing all versions of the single chip tested platforms.......................7

Figure 2: The block diagram depicting physical perimeter of the operational environment and cryptographic
boundary, and data flow between the components in the single chip.....................................................................8

Figure 3: AFF Tool indicates that the module was not enabled............................................................................24

Figure 4: AFF Tool indicating that the module is enabled.....................................................................................24

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

4 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

0. Introduction

0.1. Overview

This section is informative to the reader to reference cryptographic services and other services of
AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U) (the
“module”) from Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) (the “vendor”). Only the components listed in
Section 2.1 are subject to the FIPS 140-3 validation. The CMVP (Cryptographic Module Validation
Program) makes no statement as to the correct operation of the module or the security strengths
of the generated keys (when supported) if the specific operational environment is not listed on the
validation certificate.

0.2. This Security Policy Document

This Security Policy describes the features and design of the module named AMD Ryzen PRO 5000
Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)1 using the terminology
contained in the FIPS 140-3 specification. The FIPS 140-3 Security Requirements for Cryptographic
Module specifies the security requirements that will be satisfied by a cryptographic module utilized
within a security system protecting sensitive but unclassified information. The NIST/CCCS
Cryptographic Module Validation Program (CMVP) validates cryptographic module to FIPS 140-3.
Validated products are accepted by the Federal agencies of both the USA and Canada for the
protection of sensitive or designated information.

The Security Policy document is one document in a FIPS 140-3 Submission Package. In addition to
this document, the Submission Package contains:





The validation report prepared by the lab.

The Entropy Assessment Report (EAR) if applicable.

 Other supporting documentation and additional references.

This Non-Proprietary Security Policy may be reproduced and distributed, but only whole and intact
and including this notice. Other documentation is proprietary to their authors.

0.3. How this Security Policy was Prepared

The vendor has provided the non-proprietary Security Policy of the cryptographic module, which
was further consolidated into this document by atsec information security together with other
vendor-supplied documentation. In preparing the Security Policy document, the laboratory
formatted the vendor-supplied documentation for consolidation without altering the technical
statements therein contained. The further refining of the Security Policy document was conducted
iteratively throughout the conformance testing, wherein the Security Policy was submitted to the
vendor, who would then edit, modify, and add technical contents. The vendor would also supply
additional documentation, which the laboratory formatted into the existing Security Policy, and
resubmitted to the vendor for their final editing.

1PSP: Platform Security Processor

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

5 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

1. General

This document is the non-proprietary FIPS 140-3 Security Policy for version bc0c0140FIPS001 of
the AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
cryptographic module. It contains the security rules under which the module must operate and
describes how this module meets the requirements as specified in FIPS PUB 140-3 (Federal
Information Processing Standards Publication 140-3) for an overall Security Level 1 module.

Table 1 describes the individual security areas of FIPS 140-3, as well as the security levels of those
individual areas.

Table 1: Security levels

ISO/IEC 24759 Section 6
[Number Below]

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security Level

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

General

Cryptographic Module
Specification

Cryptographic Module
Interfaces

Roles, Services, and
Authentication

Software/Firmware Security

Operational Environment

Physical Security

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

Non-invasive Security

n/a

Sensitive Security
Parameter Management

Self-tests

Life-cycle Assurance

Mitigation of Other Attacks

Overall

1

1

1

n/a

1

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

6 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

2. Cryptographic Module Specification

The following subsections describe the cryptographic module and how it conforms to the FIPS 140-
3 specification in each of the required areas.

2.1. Module Overview, Embodiment, Type

The AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
(hereafter referred to as “the module”) is defined as type sub-chip hybrid firmware module in a
single chip embodiment, with hardware (the coprocessor) and firmware components implementing
general purpose cryptographic algorithms. The module supports the Ryzen PRO 5000 Series SoC
(System on a Chip) by providing digital signature verification of the key database during secure
boot procedures. The module resides within the Ryzen SoC that contains the module, the
processor, the firmware, and other components in a single chip embodiment (Figure 1).

Figure 1: The AMD Ryzen PRO SoC, representing all versions of the single chip tested platforms.

The Operational Environments tested for the module are described in Section 2.4

2.2. Module Design, Components and Versions

Figure 2 shows a block diagram that represents the design of the module. In this diagram, the
physical perimeter of the operational environment, defined by the perimeter of the AMD Ryzen
PRO SoC (i.e., the enclosure of the SoC), is indicated by a purple dashed line. The cryptographic
boundary is represented by the components painted in orange blocks. These components are
further described in Table 2.

Table 2: Components in the cryptographic boundary.

Component

Type

Version

Description

Bootloader
(boot_loader_stage1
.sbin)

BootROM

Firmware

bc0c0140FIPS001

Performs self-tests, provides service
indicator and show status service.

Non-
reconfigur

bc0c0140FIPS001

Provides interface to the hardware

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

7 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

Component

Type

Version

Description

able
memory

cryptographic implementations.

Hardware

bc0c0140FIPS001

Hardware

bc0c0140FIPS001

Hardware implementation of the
algorithm.

Hardware implementation of the
algorithm.

RSA implementation
in the CCP

SHA2-384
implementation in
the CCP

The flow of information between the components and the relation between that data and the
module’s FIPS interfaces are depicted through arrows. The arrows are colored differently to
facilitate visualization. The color does not identify the type of data: the type of data flow (namely,
data input, data output, status output and control input) is indicated by labels pointing to the
arrows.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

8 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

Figure 2: The block diagram depicting physical perimeter of the operational environment and
cryptographic boundary, and data flow between the components in the single chip.

2.2.1.

Components Excluded from Security Requirements

The components inside the single chip that are indicated in white blocks in Figure 2 are not
included in the cryptographic boundary and hence are excluded from the requirements of FIPS
140-3. Table 3 lists these components and a rationale for their exclusion.

Table 3: Components excluded from the security requirements of FIPS 140-3.

Component

Rationale for Exclusion

Processor

Does not implement the cryptographic functions and does not interfere
with the functions of the cryptographic coprocessor (CCP). Inside the
single-chip, the processor executes non-cryptographic functions from
the firmware components (i.e., functions not implemented in the
cryptographic coprocessor).

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

9 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

Component

Memory
Management Unit

Rationale for Exclusion

Manages memory functions only. The unit does not share the
Bootloader space with other functions within the SoC. In this unit, only
the Bootloader component is utilized by the module.

Network
Interconnect

Provides paths for data without otherwise modifying or exporting the
data without knowledge of the module.

Control Register Unit

Provide control of the internal registers of the SoC. No data is modified
or exported from this unit.

2.3. Security Level

The module is validated according to FIPS 140-3 at overall security level 1. The security levels of
individual areas are indicated in Table 1.

2.4. Tested Operational Environments

The module has been tested on the operational environments indicated in Table 4 with the
corresponding module variants and configuration options.

Table 4: Tested operational environments.

#

Operating
System

Hardware Platform

SoC/Processor

PAA/
Acceleration

1

2

3

N/A

N/A

N/A

AMD Ryzen PRO 5475U
(100-000000587)

AMD Ryzen PRO 5475U
(100-000000587)

AMD Ryzen PRO 5675U
(100-000000584)

AMD Ryzen PRO 5675U
(100-000000584)

AMD Ryzen PRO 5875U
(100-000000581)

AMD Ryzen PRO 5875U
(100-000000581)

None

None

None

2.5. Modes of Operation of the Module

The module implements only one mode of operation, the approved mode, in which the approved
services are available. No configuration is necessary for the module to operate and remain in the
approved mode.

2.6. Security Functions

2.6.1.

Approved Security Functions

Table 5 lists all approved security functions (cryptographic algorithms) of the module, including
specific key lengths employed for approved services, and implemented modes or methods of
operation of the algorithms.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

10 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

Table 5: Approved cryptographic algorithms.

CAVP Cert.

Algorithm
and
Standard

Mode/Method

Description, Key
Size / Key
Strength

Use / Function

A1719

A1719

RSA
FIPS186-4

SHS
FIPS180-4

PKCSPSS with SHA2-
384

4096

Digital signature
verification

SHA2-384

N/A

Message digest

2.6.2.

Non-Approved Security Functions Allowed in Approved Services

The module does not offer any non-approved cryptographic algorithms that are allowed in
approved services.

2.6.3.

Non-Approved Security Functions Allowed in Approved Services with
No Security Claimed

The module does not offer any non-approved cryptographic algorithms that are allowed in
approved services but claim no security.

2.6.4.

Non-Approved Security Functions Not Allowed in Approved Services

The module does not offer any non-approved cryptographic algorithms not allowed in approved
services.

2.7. Rules of operation

The module initializes upon power-on. After the pre-operational self-tests are successfully
concluded, the module automatically transitions to the operational state.

In the operational state, the module automatically performs the signature verification of the key
database using the RSA signature verification service, which is the sole service provided by the
module. The key database and RSA public key are accessed by the module bootloader component
(who then acts as the operator of the module) without operator input. After the successful
signature verification of the key database, the module unloads itself from memory, ceasing its
operation.

All the procedures described above are conducted without operator assistance. To perform the
procedures again, the module must be reset, which will trigger a new boot.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

11 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

3. Cryptographic Module Interfaces
Table 6 summarizes the cryptographic module interfaces2. The logical interfaces are logically
separated from each other by the API design. The power interface is physically separated from any
other interface.

Physical Port

Logical Interface

Data that passes over port/interface

Table 6: Ports and interfaces.

Input registers, DMA
interface

Output registers,
DMA interface

Command Queue
Control registers

Data Input

API input parameters for data.

Data Output

API output parameters for data.

Control Input

API function calls, API input parameters for control.

Status registers

Status Output

API return codes, status values.

Power port

Power (input)
interface

Power port or pin in the single-chip.

2

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

12 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

4. Roles, Services and Authentication

4.1. Roles

Table 7 lists the roles supported by the module with corresponding services with input and output.

The module supports the Crypto Officer role only. This sole role is implicitly and always assumed
by the operator of the module.

Table 7: Roles, service commands, input, and output.

Role

Service

Input

Output

Crypto
Officer

Digital Signature
Verification

Key database (pointer to
contents), signature, public
key.

Success, fail.

Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer

Show Version

None.

Show Status

None.

On-Demand Self-Test None.

On-Demand Integrity
Test

Zeroize

None.

None.

Name and version
information in data output
interface.

Current status in status
output interface (as return
codes and/or log
messages).

None.

None.

None.

4.2. Authentication

The module does not support authentication for roles.

4.3. Services

The module provides services to operators that assume the available role. All services are
described in detail in the user documentation.

The next subsections define the services that utilize approved, allowed, and non-approved security
functions in this module. For the respective tables, the convention below applies when specifying
the access permissions (types) that the service has for each SSP.

 Generate (G): The service establishes the SSP by generation, agreement, or derivation.

 Read (R): The SSP exists in the module and is read by the service, and may be output.

 Write (W): The caller provides the SSP to the service to be imported into the module;

written; or updated if the SSP already exists in the module.



Execute (E) (or use): The service uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation.
Other access types identify the provenance of the SSP.

 Zeroize (Z): The service zeroizes the SSP.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

13 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

 N/A: The service does not access any SSP or key during its operation.

The module provides only one approved service with approved parameters, and no non-approved
services. The approved service indicator is thus considered a global indicator and it is set after
successful completion of the pre-operational and conditional self-tests.

4.3.1.

Approved Services

Table 8 lists the approved services in this module, the roles that can request the service, the
algorithms involved, the Sensitive Security Parameters (SSPs) involved and how they are
accessed, and the respective service indicator.

In the service tables, CO specifies the Crypto Officer role.

Table 8: Services that use approved and allowed algorithms.

Service

Service
Description

Approved
Security
Functions

Keys, SSPs

Role

Access
Types

Indicator

Digital
Signature
Verification

Verify
signature
operations

RSA PSS using
SHA2-384

RSA public
key

CO

W, E

Global indicator
readable through
Microsoft HSTI
and through UEFI
interactive shell
tool (upon
successful self-
tests and the
module becomes
operational,
module only
offers approved
services).

Show
Version

Show Status

On-Demand
Self-Test

On-Demand
Integrity
Test

Show the
version of the
module’s
components

Show status of
the module
state

Initiate on-
demand self-
tests by reset

Initiate the
integrity test
(pre-
operational
self-test)

Other Services

N/A

None

CO

N/A

None.

N/A

N/A

None

CO

N/A

None.

None

CO

N/A

None.

SHA2-384

None

CO

N/A

Global indicator
readable through
Microsoft HSTI
and through UEFI
interactive shell
tool (upon
successful self-
tests and the
module becomes
operational,
module only
offers approved
services).

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

14 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

Service

Service
Description

Approved
Security
Functions

Keys, SSPs

Role

Access
Types

Indicator

Zeroize

Zeroize PSP in
volatile
memory

N/A

All SSPs

CO

Z

PSP is no longer
accessible

4.3.2.

Non-Approved Services

There are no non-approved services.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

15 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

5. Software/Firmware Security

5.1.

Integrity Techniques

The integrity of the bootloader component of the module (in firmware) is verified by comparing a
SHA2-384 digest value calculated at run time with the SHA2-384 digest value stored in the module
that was computed at build time.

The bootROM component of the module is a non-reconfigurable memory (specifically masked
ROM), thus exempt from the requirements of integrity test. The vendor declares that this bootROM
component composed of non-reconfigurable memory does not degrade before 10 (ten) years of
manufacture date, thus complying with the requirements of IG 5.A. Please refer to Section 11.1.3.

5.2. On-Demand Integrity Test

Integrity tests are performed as part of the Pre-Operational Self-Tests. The integrity test may be
invoked on-demand in two ways: through the On-Demand Self-Test service, and through the On-
Demand Integrity Test service.

The module provides the On-Demand Self-Test service to perform self-tests on demand. This
service performs the same cryptographic algorithm tests executed during power-up, i.e., the
cryptographic algorithm self-tests and the pre-operational self-test. This service is invoked by
powering-off and reloading the module.

The On-Demand Integrity Test service can be used to perform only the on-demand pre-operational
self-tests. This service is invoked by calling the integrity test API using the module’s logical
interfaces. More details on the API are provided by the vendor in its developer’s manual.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

16 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

6. Operational Environment

6.1. Applicability

The module operates in a non-modifiable operational environment per FIPS 140-3 level 1
specifications.

6.2. Tested Operational Environments

Please see Section 2.4.

6.3. Policy and Requirements

The operational environment provides context separation for the memory and registers utilized by
the module. When these components are used by the module, no other process or sub-component
can access the information concurrently.

The bootloader component also acts as the sole operator of the module, thus there are no
concurrent operators.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

17 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

7. Physical Security

7.1. General

The embodiment of the sub-chip module is a single chip consisting of production-grade
components. The coating is a standard sealing coat applied over the single chip.

The module provides no additional physical security techniques.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

18 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

8. Non-Invasive Security

The module claims no non-invasive security techniques.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

19 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

9. Sensitive Security Parameter Management

Table 9 summarizes the Sensitive Security Parameters (SSPs) that are used by the cryptographic
services implemented in the module in the approved services (Table 8).

Table 9: Sensitive Security Parameters (SSPs).

SSP

Strength

Security
Function
and Cert.
#

Generation

Import

/Export

Establi
shmen
t

Storage Zeroiz
ation

Use

150 bits

RSA
public
key

N/A

RSA
signature
verification
(A1719)

Input in
plaintext
through
data input
interface.

No
output.

N/A

Volatile
memory

When
the
module
ends its
operati
on

RSA
signatur
e
verificat
ion

9.1. SSP Generation

The module does not generate SSPs.

9.2. SSP Establishment

The module does not implement SSP establishment.

9.3. SSP Entry/Output

The module does not support manual key entry or intermediate key generation key output. In
addition, the module does not produce key output..

The public key supplied to the module’s services is provided by the operator via the data input
interface.

9.4. SSP Storage

SSPs are provided to the module by the calling process and are destroyed when released by the
respective functions.

The module does not perform persistent storage of SSPs; keys in use by the module exist in
volatile memory only.

9.5. SSP Zeroization

The module’s functions deallocates and zeroizes temporary SSP values in volatile memory used
during the function’s execution. The zeroization consists of writing zeroes to the memory location
used by the SSP before deallocating the area. The module does not overwrite the SSP with another
SSP.

The zeroization service for the SSP in volatile memory consists of powering off the module, which
will remove power from the volatile memory. This action will cause the value of the SSP in volatile
memory to be overwritten by random values the next time the module is powered on.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

20 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

The RSA public key used for the RSA signature verification function is not stored within the
components of the module, but in permanent storage outside of the single chip. This storage can
be zeroized by blowing the memory fuse (outside of the single chip).

9.6. Random Number Generation

The module does not implement random number generation.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

21 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

10. Self Tests

The module performs pre-operational self-tests and conditional self-tests. While the module is
executing the self-tests, services are not available, and data output (via the data output interface)
is inhibited until the tests are successfully completed.

All the self-tests are listed in Table 10, with the respective condition under which those tests are
performed. The firmware integrity test is performed after all conditional algorithm self-tests
(CASTs) are performed.

Table 10: Self-tests.

Algorithm Parameters Condition for

Type

Test

RSA

SHA2-384
and 4096-
bit key

SHA2-384 N/A

Test

Power up

Firmware
integrity test on
bootloader
component at
power up (after
all CASTs)

Conditional Algorithm
Self-Test

KAT signature verification

Pre-Operational Self-
Test

Digest verification on
bootloader firmware
component

SHA2-384 N/A

Power up

Conditional Algorithm
Self-Test

KAT SHA2-384

10.1. Pre-Operational Self-Tests

The module performs pre-operational tests automatically when the module is powered on. The
pre-operational self-tests ensure that the module is not corrupted and that the cryptographic
algorithms work as expected. The module transitions to the operational state only after the pre-
operational self-tests are passed successfully.

The types of pre-operational self-tests are described in the next sub-sections.

10.1.1. Firmware Integrity Test

The integrity of the bootloader component of the module (in firmware) is verified by comparing a
SHA2-384 digest value calculated at run time with the SHA2-384 digest value stored in the module
that was computed at build time. If the comparison verification fails, the module transitions to the
error state (Section 10.3). The SHA2-384 algorithm goes through its conditional algorithm self-test
before the integrity test is performed (Table 10).

The bootROM component of the module is considered non-reconfigurable memory, thus exempt
from the requirements of integrity test. The vendor declares that this bootROM component
composed of non-reconfigurable memory does not degrade before 10 (ten) years of manufacture
date, thus complying with the requirements of IG 5.A.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

22 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

10.2. Conditional Tests

10.2.1. Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Tests

The module performs self-tests on all approved cryptographic algorithms as part of the approved
services supported in the approved mode of operation, using the tests shown in Table 10. Data
output through the data output interface is inhibited during the self-tests.

10.2.2. Periodic/On-Demand Self-Test

The module performs on-demand self-tests initiated by the operator, by powering off and powering
the module back on. The full suite of self-tests in Table 10 is then executed.

The same procedure may be employed by the operator to perform periodic self-tests.

10.3. Error States

If the module fails any of the self-tests, the module enters the error state. In the error state, the
module outputs the error type through the status indicator and status output interface. In the error
state, the data output interface is inhibited, and the module accepts no more inputs or requests.
The module does not implement a control output interface.

Table 11 lists the error state and the status indicator (through FW_STATUS register) values that
explains the error that has occurred.

Table 11: Error states.

Error State

Error Condition

Status Indicator (FW_STATUS)

Error

SHA2-384 self-test error

Error code AA0000FB

RSA self-test error

Error code AA0000FC

Integrity test error

Error code AA0000FD

To recover from the error state (clearing the error condition), the module shall be restarted or
reset.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

23 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

11. Life-Cycle Assurance

11.1. Delivery and Operation

11.1.1. Procedures for Secure installation, Initialization, Start-up, and

Operation of the Module

The procedures herein described are directed at OEMs for producing and configuring their BIOS so
that the FIPS module is properly enabled to operate as the validated module in conformance with
the rules in this Security Policy document.

Once properly installed and enabled, no configuration is necessary for the module to operate and
remain in the approved mode, as it is the only mode of operation of the module.

11.1.1.1.

To enable the FIPS capability

1. Reserve 16KiB at least for Platform Security Processor level 1 directory, as the FIPS module
requires additional 8KiB of ROM space for the Platform Security Processor L1 Bootloader.

2. The Platform BIOS must include the file with “_FIPS” postfix in the file name as Platform

Security Processor entry 0x1. For example, the file
PspBootLoader_stage1_prod_AB_RN_FIPS.sbin has “_FIPS” postfix in the file name. This file
is thus a FIPS capable Platform Security Processor boot loader. Conversely, the file
PspBootLoader_stage1_prod_AB_RN.sbin does not have “_FIPS” postfix in the file name,
making this file a non-FIPS capable Platform Security Processor boot loader.

3. Set BIT 32 of Platform Security Processor soft fuse chain (Platform Security Processor entry

0xB) to enable FIPS capability.

a. The BIT32 in Platform Security Processor entry 0xB is defined as FIPS capability

enablement. If 0, the FIPS capability is OFF; if 1, the FIPS capability is ON (i.e., the
module is properly installed as the validated module described in this document).

11.1.1.2.

To verify whether FIPS capability is on

1. Boot the system into UEFI shell with secure boot disabled.

2. Use the UEFI shell version of the AFF Tool version 0.3 and beyond. This tool is provided by

the vendor. Run the AFF Tool with the command: afftool –fips from the interactive UEFI shell
provided by the BIOS.

a.

b.

If it shows “FIPS mode: on”, this is the FIPS capable module installed.

If it shows “FIPS mode: off”, the module (described in this document) is disabled.

The screenshot in Figure 3 shows the usage of the AFF Tool. The output indicates that the FIPS
module is disabled. In this condition, the module does not operate in conformance with this
Security Policy document.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

24 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

Figure 3: AFF Tool indicates that the module was not enabled.

The screenshot in Figure 4 again shows the usage of the AFF Tool. The output demonstrates that
the FIPS module is enabled and thus will operate as the FIPS validated module according to the
rules in this Security Policy document.

Figure 4: AFF Tool indicating that the module is enabled.

11.1.2. Maintenance Requirements

There are no maintenance requirements.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

25 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

11.1.3. End of Life

The process for performing “End of Life” occurs at the chronological point of 10 years starting from
manufacturing date of the module.

As stated in Section 9.4, the module does not possess persistent storage of SSPs. The SSP value
only exists in volatile memory and that value vanishes when the module is powered off. The
procedure for secure sanitization of the module at the end of life is simply to power it off, which is
the action of zeroization of the SSPs (Section 9.5) . As a result of this sanitization via power-off, the
SSP is removed from the module, so that the module may either be distributed to other operators
or disposed.

11.2. Administrator Guidance

All the functions, ports and logical interfaces described in this document are available to the
Crypto Officer. The module only provides approved functions, and as such there are no special
procedures to administer the approved mode of operation.

11.3. Non-Administrator Guidance

The module implements only the Crypto Officer. There are no requirements for non-administrator
operators.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

26 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

12. Mitigation of Other Attacks

The module does not implement security mechanisms to mitigate other attacks.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

27 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

13. Glossary and Abbreviations

AES

CAVP

CMVP

CSP

DRBG

FIPS

HMAC

HSTI

KAT

MAC

NIST

OS

PAA

PSS

RNG

RSA

SHA

SHS

XTS

Advanced Encryption Standard

Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program

Cryptographic Module Validation Program

Critical Security Parameter

Deterministic Random Bit Generator

Federal Information Processing Standards

Hash Message Authentication Code

(Microsoft) Hardware Security Test Interface

Known Answer Test

Message Authentication Code

National Institute of Science and Technology

Operating System

Processor Algorithm Acceleration

Probabilistic Signature Scheme

Random Number Generator

Rivest, Shamir, Addleman

Secure Hash Algorithm

Secure Hash Standard

XEX-based Tweaked-codebook mode with cipher text Stealing

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

28 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 5000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (models 5475U, 5675U, 5875U)
Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary

14. References

FIPS PUB 180-4. Secure Hash Standard (SHS). (2012, March). FIPS PUB 180-4. Secure Hash

Standard (SHS). Gaithersburg, MD 20899-8900: National Institute of Standards &
Technology. Retrieved from http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips/fips180-4/fips-180-4.pdf

FIPS PUB 186-4. Digital Signature Standard (DSS). (2013, July). FIPS PUB 186-4. Digital Signature

Standard (DSS). https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-4.
doi:https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-4

Implementation Guidance for FIPS 140-3 and the Cryptographic Module Validation Program. (2022,
March 14). Implementation Guidance for FIPS 140-3 and the Cryptographic Module
Validation Program. Retrieved 03 8, 2021, from
https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/
documents/fips 140-3/FIPS 140-3 IG.pdf

ISO/IEC. (2012, August). ISO/IEC 19790:2012 Information technology — Security techniques —

Security requirements for cryptographic modules. ISO/IEC 19790:2012 Information
technology — Security techniques — Security requirements for cryptographic modules.
Retrieved from https://www.iso.org/standard/52906.html

ISO/IEC. (2017, March). ISO/IEC 24759:2017 Information technology — Security techniques — Test

requirements for cryptographic modules. ISO/IEC 24759:2017 Information technology —
Security techniques — Test requirements for cryptographic modules. Retrieved from
https://www.iso.org/standard/72515.html

National Institute of Standards Technology. (2019, March). FIPS PUB 140-3. Security Requirements
for Cryptographic Modules. FIPS PUB 140-3. Security Requirements for Cryptographic
Modules. Retrieved from https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.140-3.pdf

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

29 of 29

