AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic
CoProcessor

Module Version: bc0d0253FIPS002

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Document Version: 1.2

Last update: 2023-08-30

Prepared by:

atsec information security corporation

9130 Jollyville Road, Suite 260

Austin, TX 78759

www.atsec.com

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Table of Contents

1. Introduction .......................................................................................................................... 5

1.1. Overview ................................................................................................................................ 5

1.2. This Security Policy Document ............................................................................................... 5

1.3. How this Security Policy was Prepared ................................................................................... 5

2. General ................................................................................................................................. 6

3. Cryptographic Module Specification ...................................................................................... 7

3.1. Module Overview, Embodiment, Type .................................................................................... 7

3.2. Module Design, Components and Versions ............................................................................ 7

3.2.1. Components Excluded from Security Requirements ....................................................... 9

3.3. Security Level ......................................................................................................................... 9

3.4. Tested Operational Environments .......................................................................................... 9

3.5. Modes of Operation of the Module ....................................................................................... 10

3.6. Security Functions ................................................................................................................ 10

3.6.1. Approved Security Functions ......................................................................................... 10

3.6.2. Non-Approved Security Functions Allowed in Approved Services .................................. 11

3.6.3. Non-Approved Security Functions Allowed in Approved Services with No Security
Claimed ................................................................................................................................... 11

3.6.4. Non-Approved Security Functions Not Allowed in Approved Services ........................... 11

3.7. Rules of operation ................................................................................................................ 11

4. Cryptographic Module Interfaces ......................................................................................... 12

5. Roles, Services and Authentication ..................................................................................... 13

5.1. Roles .................................................................................................................................... 13

5.2. Authentication ...................................................................................................................... 13

5.3. Services ................................................................................................................................ 13

5.3.1. Approved Services ......................................................................................................... 14

5.3.2. Non-Approved Services ................................................................................................. 14

6. Software/Firmware Security ................................................................................................ 16

6.1. Integrity Techniques ............................................................................................................ 16

6.2. On-Demand Integrity Test .................................................................................................... 16

7. Operational Environment .................................................................................................... 17

7.1. Applicability .......................................................................................................................... 17

7.2. Tested Operational Environments ........................................................................................ 17

7.3. Policy and Requirements ...................................................................................................... 17

8. Physical Security ................................................................................................................. 18

8.1. General ................................................................................................................................ 18

9. Non-Invasive Security ......................................................................................................... 19

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

2 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

10. Sensitive Security Parameter Management ....................................................................... 20

10.1. SSP Generation .................................................................................................................. 20

10.2. SSP Establishment .............................................................................................................. 20

10.3. SSP Entry/Output ................................................................................................................ 20

10.4. SSP Storage ........................................................................................................................ 20

10.5. SSP Zeroization .................................................................................................................. 20

10.6. Random Number Generation .............................................................................................. 21

11. Self Tests .......................................................................................................................... 22

11.1. Pre-Operational Self-Tests .................................................................................................. 22

11.1.1. Firmware Integrity Test ............................................................................................... 22

11.2. Conditional Tests ................................................................................................................ 23

11.2.1. Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Tests ............................................................................. 23

11.2.2. Periodic/On-Demand Self-Test ..................................................................................... 23

11.3. Error States ........................................................................................................................ 23

12. Life-Cycle Assurance ......................................................................................................... 24

12.1. Delivery and Operation ...................................................................................................... 24

12.1.1. Procedures for Secure installation, Initialization, Start-up, and Operation of the Module
 ................................................................................................................................................ 24

12.1.2. Maintenance Requirements ......................................................................................... 26

12.1.3. End of Life ................................................................................................................... 26

12.2. Administrator Guidance ..................................................................................................... 26

12.3. Non-Administrator Guidance .............................................................................................. 26

13. Mitigation of Other Attacks ................................................................................................ 27

14. Glossary and Abbreviations ............................................................................................... 28

15. References ........................................................................................................................ 29

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

3 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

List of Tables

Table 1: Security levels ........................................................................................................................................... 6

Table 2: Components in the cryptographic boundary. ............................................................................................ 7

Table 3: Tested operational environments. ............................................................................................................. 9

Table 4: Approved cryptographic algorithms. ....................................................................................................... 10

Table 5: Non-approved cryptographic algorithms not allowed in approved services. ........................................... 11

Table 6: Ports and interfaces. ............................................................................................................................... 12

Table 7: Roles, service commands, input, and output. ......................................................................................... 13

Table 8: Services that use approved and allowed algorithms. .............................................................................. 14

Table 9: Services that use non-approved algorithms. ........................................................................................... 15

Table 10: Sensitive Security Parameters (SSPs). ................................................................................................ 20

Table 11: Self-tests. .............................................................................................................................................. 22

Table 12: Error states. ........................................................................................................................................... 23

List of Figures

Figure 1: The AMD Ryzen PRO SoC, representing all versions of the single chip tested platforms. ..................... 7

Figure 2: The block diagram depicting the physical perimeter of the operational environment and cryptographic
boundary, and the data flow between the components in the single chip. .............................................................. 9

Figure 3: AFF Tool indicates that the module was not enabled. ........................................................................... 25

Figure 4: AFF Tool indicating that the module is enabled. .................................................................................... 25

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

4 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

1. Introduction

1.1.  Overview

This section is informative to the reader to reference cryptographic services and other services of
AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (the “module”) from Advanced Micro
Devices (AMD) (the “vendor”). Only the components listed in Section 3.1 are subject to the FIPS
140-3 validation. The CMVP (Cryptographic Module Validation Program) makes no statement as to
the correct operation of the module or the security strengths of the generated keys (when
supported) if the specific operational environment is not listed on the validation certificate.

1.2.  This Security Policy Document

This Security Policy describes the features and design of the module named AMD Ryzen PRO 6000
Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor1 using the terminology contained in the FIPS 140-3
specification. The FIPS 140-3 Security Requirements for Cryptographic Module specifies the
security requirements that will be satisfied by a cryptographic module utilized within a security
system protecting sensitive but unclassified information. The NIST/CCCS Cryptographic Module
Validation Program (CMVP) validates cryptographic module to FIPS 140-3. Validated products are
accepted by the Federal agencies of both the USA and Canada for the protection of sensitive or
designated information.

The Security Policy document is one document in a FIPS 140-3 Submission Package. In addition to
this document, the Submission Package contains:

•  The validation report prepared by the lab.

•  The Entropy Assessment Report (EAR) if applicable.

•  Other supporting documentation and additional references.

This Non-Proprietary Security Policy may be reproduced and distributed, but only whole and intact
and including this notice. Other documentation is proprietary to their authors.

1.3.  How this Security Policy was Prepared

The vendor has provided the non-proprietary Security Policy of the cryptographic module, which
was further consolidated into this document by atsec information security together with other
vendor-supplied documentation. In preparing the Security Policy document, the laboratory
formatted the vendor-supplied documentation for consolidation without altering the technical
statements therein contained. The further refining of the Security Policy document was conducted
iteratively throughout the conformance testing, wherein the Security Policy was submitted to the
vendor, who would then edit, modify, and add technical contents. The vendor would also supply
additional documentation, which the laboratory formatted into the existing Security Policy, and
resubmitted to the vendor for their final editing.

1 PSP: Platform Security Processor

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

5 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

2. General

This document is the non-proprietary FIPS 140-3 Security Policy for version bc0d0253FIPS002 of
the AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor cryptographic module. It contains
the security rules under which the module must operate and describes how this module meets the
requirements as specified in FIPS PUB 140-3 (Federal Information Processing Standards Publication
140-3) for an overall Security Level 1 module.

Table 1 describes the individual security areas of FIPS 140-3, as well as the security levels of those
individual areas.

Table 1: Security levels

ISO/IEC 24759
Section 6 (full
section below)

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security
Level

6.1

6.2

6.3

6.4

6.5

6.6

6.7

6.8

6.9

6.10

6.11

6.12

General

Cryptographic Module
Specification

Cryptographic Module
Interfaces

Roles, Services, and
Authentication

Software/Firmware Security

Operational Environment

Physical Security

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

Non-invasive Security

n/a

Sensitive Security Parameter
Management

Self-tests

Life-cycle Assurance

Mitigation of Other Attacks

Overall

1

1

1

n/a

1

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

6 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

3. Cryptographic Module Specification

The following subsections describe the cryptographic module and how it conforms to the FIPS 140-
3 specification in each of the required areas.

3.1.  Module Overview, Embodiment, Type

The AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor (hereafter referred to as “the
module”) is defined as a hybrid firmware module in a single chip embodiment, with hardware (the
coprocessor) and firmware components implementing general purpose cryptographic algorithms.
The module supports the Ryzen PRO 6000 Series SoC (System on a Chip) by providing digital
signature verification of the key database during secure boot procedures. The module resides
within the Ryzen SoC that contains the module, the processor, the firmware, and other
components in a single chip embodiment (Figure 1).

Figure 1: The AMD Ryzen PRO SoC, representing all versions of the single chip tested platforms.

The Operational Environments tested for the module are described in Section 3.4

3.2.  Module Design, Components and Versions

Figure 2 shows a block diagram that represents the design of the module. In this diagram, the
physical perimeter of the operational environment, defined by the perimeter of the AMD Ryzen
PRO SoC (i.e., the enclosure of the SoC), is indicated by a purple dashed line. The cryptographic
boundary is represented by the components painted in orange blocks. These components are
further described in Table 2.

Table 2: Components in the cryptographic boundary.

Component

Type

Version

Description

Bootloader
(boot_loader_stage1
.sbin)

BootROM

Firmware

bc0d0253FIPS002

Performs self-tests, provides service
indicator and show status service.

Non-
reconfigur
able

bc0d0253FIPS002

Provides interface to the hardware
cryptographic implementations.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

7 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Component

Type

Version

Description

RSA
implementation in
the CCP

SHA2-384
implementation in
the CCP

AES-128
implementation in
the CCP (non-
approved)

memory

Hardware

bc0d0253FIPS002  Hardware implementation of the
algorithm.

Hardware

bc0d0253FIPS002  Hardware implementation of the
algorithm.

Hardware

bc0d0253FIPS002  Hardware implementation of the

algorithm (which is non-approved in
this module).

The flow of information between the components and the relation between that data and the
module’s FIPS interfaces are depicted through arrows. The arrows are colored differently to
facilitate visualization. The color does not identify the type of data: the type of data flow (namely,
data input, data output, status output and control input) is indicated by labels pointing to the
arrows.

Components in white are only included in the diagram for informational purposes. They are not
included in the cryptographic boundary (and therefore not part of the module’s validation). For
example, the processor is responsible for executing the non-cryptographic code in the bootloader
and bootROM firmware components.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

8 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Figure 2: The block diagram depicting the physical perimeter of the operational environment and
cryptographic boundary, and the data flow between the components in the single chip.

3.2.1.

Components Excluded from Security Requirements

There are no components within the cryptographic boundary that are excluded from the FIPS 140-
3 security requirements.

3.3.  Security Level

The module is validated according to FIPS 140-3 at overall security level 1. The security levels of
individual areas are indicated in Table 1.

3.4.  Tested Operational Environments

The module has been tested on the operational environments indicated in Table 3 with the
corresponding module variants and configuration options.

Table 3: Tested operational environments.

#

Operating
System

Hardware Platform

SoC/Processor

PAA/Accelerat
ion

1

N/A

AMD Ryzen PRO 6650H

AMD Ryzen PRO 6650H

None

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

9 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

#

Operating
System

Hardware Platform

SoC/Processor

PAA/Accelerat
ion

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

10

N/A

(100-000000543)

(100-000000543)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6650H
(100-000000565)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6650H
(100-000000565)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6650U
(100-000000539)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6650U
(100-000000539)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6650U
(100-000000551)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6650U
(100-000000551)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6850H
(100-000000542)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6850H
(100-000000542)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6850H
(100-000000564)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6850H
(100-000000564)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6850U
(100-000000538)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6850U
(100-000000538)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6850U
(100-000000550)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6850U
(100-000000550)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6950H
(100-000000541)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6950H
(100-000000541)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6950H
(100-000000563)

AMD Ryzen PRO 6950H
(100-000000563)

None

None

None

None

None

None

None

None

None

3.5.  Modes of Operation of the Module

The module implements two modes of operation: (1) the approved mode, in which the approved
services are available; and (2) the non-approved mode, in which the non-approved services are
available. After the pre-operational self-tests and cryptographic algorithm self-tests are
successfully concluded, the module automatically transitions to the operational state by default
and can only be transitioned into the non-Approved mode by calling the non-Approved service
listed in Table 5. The current mode of operation of the module can be inferred by the service
indicator, which indicates the approval state of the current service being invoked.

3.6.  Security Functions

3.6.1.

Approved Security Functions

Table 4 lists all approved security functions (cryptographic algorithms) of the module, including
specific key lengths employed for approved services, and implemented modes or methods of
operation of the algorithms.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

10 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Table 4: Approved cryptographic algorithms.

CAVP Cert.

Algorithm and
Standard

Mode/Method

Description/Key
Size/Key Strength

Use/Function

A2578

RSA (FIPS186-4)

PKCSPSS with
SHA2-384

4096

Digital signature
verification

A2578

SHA (FIPS180-4)

SHA2-384

N/A

Message digest

3.6.2.

Non-Approved Security Functions Allowed in Approved Services

The module does not offer any non-approved security functions that are allowed in approved
services.

3.6.3.

Non-Approved Security Functions Allowed in Approved Services with No Secu-
rity Claimed

The module does not offer any non-approved security functions that are allowed in approved
services but claim no security.

3.6.4.

Non-Approved Security Functions Not Allowed in Approved Services

Table 5 lists all non-approved security functions not allowed in approved services of the module.

Note that, although this algorithm is approved for usage per SP 800-140C, it was not tested under
CAVP for this module, nor does the module implement a cryptographic algorithm self-test for this
security function, thus making it non-approved.

Table 5: Non-approved cryptographic algorithms not allowed in approved services.

Algorithm

Use/Function

AES-128-ECB

Decryption

3.7.  Rules of operation

The module initializes upon power-on. After the pre-operational self-tests and cryptographic
algorithm self-tests are successfully concluded, the module automatically transitions to the
operational state.

In the operational state, the module de-obfuscates the stage 2 firmware obfuscation key
(considered unprotected plaintext) using AES-128-ECB (which is a non-approved algorithm for this
module), if required. Then, the module automatically performs the signature verification of the key
database using the RSA signature verification service. The key database and RSA public key are
accessed by the module bootloader component (who then acts as the operator of the module)
without operator input. After the successful signature verification of the key database, the module
loads the next stage 2 firmware into memory, verifies its integrity using the RSA signature
verification service, and, if required, de-obfuscates the firmware using AES-128-ECB and the stage
2 firmware obfuscation key. Finally, the module unloads itself from memory, ceasing its operation.

All the procedures described above are conducted without operator assistance. To perform the
procedures again, the module must be reset, which will trigger a new boot.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

11 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

4. Cryptographic Module Interfaces

Table 6 summarizes the cryptographic module interfaces2. The logical interfaces are logically
separated from each other by the API design. The power interface is physically separated from any
other interface.

Table 6: Ports and interfaces.

Physical Port

Logical Interface

Data that passes over port/interface

SRAM

SRAM

SRAM

SRAM

Data Input

API input parameters for data.

Data Output

API output parameters for data.

Control Input

API function calls, API input parameters for control.

Status Output

API return codes, status values.

Power port

Power (input)
interface

Power port or pin in the single chip.

2The module does not implement a control output interface.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

12 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

5. Roles, Services and Authentication

5.1.  Roles

Table 7 lists the roles supported by the module with corresponding services with input and output.

The module supports the Crypto Officer role only. This sole role is implicitly and always assumed
by the operator of the module.

Table 7: Roles, service commands, input, and output.

Role

Service

Input

Output

Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer

Digital Signature
Verification

Pointer to message,
signature, public key.

De-obfuscation of
stage 2 firmware
obfuscation key

Pointer to stage 2 firmware
obfuscation key, key-
obfuscation-key.

Success, fail.

Success, fail.

De-obfuscation of
stage 2 firmware

Pointer to stage 2 firmware,
obfuscation key.

Success, fail.

Show Version

None.

Show Status

None.

On-Demand Self-Test  None.

On-Demand Integrity
Test

None

Zeroize

None.

Name and version
information in data output
interface.

Current status in status
output interface (as return
codes and/or log
messages).

None.

None.

None.

5.2.  Authentication

The module does not support authentication for roles.

5.3.  Services

The module provides services to operators that assume the available role. All services are
described in detail in the user documentation.

The next subsections define the services that utilize approved, allowed, and non-approved security
functions in this module. For the respective tables, the convention below applies when specifying
the access permissions (types) that the service has for each SSP.

•  Generate (G): The service establishes the SSP by generation, agreement, or derivation.

•  Read (R): The SSP exists in the module and is read by the service, and may be output.

•  Write (W): The caller provides the SSP to the service to be imported into the module;

written; or updated if the SSP already exists in the module.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

13 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

•  Execute (E) (or use): The service uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation.

Other access types identify the provenance of the SSP.

•  Zeroize (Z): The service zeroizes the SSP.

•  N/A: The service does not access any SSP or key during its operation.

The approved service indicators are readable after successful completion of the pre-operational
and conditional self-tests.

5.3.1.

Approved Services

Table 8 lists the approved services in this module, the roles that can request the service, the
algorithms involved, the Sensitive Security Parameters (SSPs) involved and how they are
accessed, and the respective service indicator. The service indicator can be inspected by an
external operator using the Trusted Execution Environment Component (TEEC) command with ID
16.  See Section 12.1.1.3 for more information on how to inspect the service indicator.

In the service tables, CO specifies the Crypto Officer role.

Table 8: Services that use approved and allowed algorithms.

Service

Service
Description

Approved
Security
Functions

Keys, SSPs

Role

Access
Types

Indicator

Digital
Signature
Verification

Show
Version

Show Status

On-Demand
Self-Test

On-Demand
Integrity
Test

Verify signature
operations

RSA PSS using
SHA2-384

RSA public
key

CO

W, E

The first bit in
FIPS_selftest_stat
us is set to 1.

Show the
version of the
module’s
components

Show status of
the module
state

Initiate power-
on self-tests by
reset

Initiate the
integrity test
(pre-operational
self-test)

N/A

None

CO

N/A

None.

N/A

N/A

None

CO

N/A

None.

None

CO

N/A

None.

SHA2-384

None

CO

N/A

Successful
completion.

Zeroize

Zeroize PSP in
volatile memory

N/A

All SSPs

CO

Z

None.

5.3.2.

Non-Approved Services

Table 9 lists the non-approved services that utilize the non-approved security functions listed in
Table 5.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

14 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Table 9: Services that use non-approved algorithms.

Service

Service Description

Algorithms

Role

Indicator

De-obfuscation
of stage 2
firmware
obfuscation key

De-obfuscation
of stage 2
firmware

De-obfuscate the stage
2 firmware obfuscation
key

De-obfuscate the stage
2 firmware using the
stage 2 firmware
obfuscation key

Accessed

AES-128-ECB

CO

AES-128-ECB

CO

The first bit in
FIPS_selftest_status is set to
0.

The first bit in
FIPS_selftest_status is set to
0.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

15 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

6. Software/Firmware Security

6.1.

Integrity Techniques

The integrity of the bootloader component of the module (in firmware) is verified by comparing a
SHA2-384 digest value calculated at run time with the SHA2-384 digest value stored in the module
that was computed at build time.

The bootROM component of the module is a non-reconfigurable memory (specifically masked
ROM), thus exempt from the requirements of integrity test. The vendor declares that this bootROM
component composed of non-reconfigurable memory does not degrade before 10 (ten) years of
manufacture date, thus complying with the requirements of IG 5.A. Please refer to Section 12.1.3.

6.2.  On-Demand Integrity Test

Integrity tests are performed as part of the Pre-Operational Self-Tests. The integrity test may be
invoked on-demand in two ways: through the On-Demand Self-Test service, and through the On-
Demand Integrity Test service.

The module provides the On-Demand Self-Test service to perform self-tests on demand. This
service performs the same cryptographic algorithm tests executed during power-up, i.e., the
cryptographic algorithm self-tests and the pre-operational self-test. This service is invoked by
powering-off and reloading the module.

The On-Demand Integrity Test service can be used to perform only the on-demand pre-operational
self-tests. This service is invoked by calling the integrity test API using the module’s logical
interfaces. More details on the API are provided by the vendor in its developer’s manual.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

16 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

7. Operational Environment

7.1.  Applicability

The module operates in a non-modifiable operational environment per FIPS 140-3 level 1
specifications: no changes are possible to module firmware code, nor the bootloader firmware
code that interacts with the module.

7.2.  Tested Operational Environments

Please see Section 3.4.

7.3.  Policy and Requirements

The operational environment provides context separation for the memory and registers utilized by
the module. When these components are used by the module, no other process or sub-component
can access the information concurrently.

The bootloader component also acts as the sole operator of the module, thus there are no
concurrent operators.

No configuration of the operational environment is required for the module to operate in an
approved mode. Therefore, there are no rules, settings, or restrictions to the configuration of the
operational environment.

The module does not have the capability of loading software or firmware from an external source.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

17 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

8. Physical Security

8.1.  General

The embodiment of the module is a single chip consisting of production-grade components. The
coating is a standard sealing coat applied over the single chip.

The module provides no additional physical security techniques.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

18 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

9. Non-Invasive Security

The module claims no non-invasive security techniques.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

19 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

10.  Sensitive Security Parameter Management

Table 10 summarizes the Sensitive Security Parameters (SSPs) that are used by the cryptographic
services implemented in the module in the approved services (Table 8).

Table 10: Sensitive Security Parameters (SSPs).

SSP

Strength

Security
Function
and Cert. #

Generation

Import
/Export

Establis
hment

Storage

Zero-
ization

Use

150 bits

RSA
public
key

N/A

RSA
signature
verification
(A2578)

MD/EE

Volatile
memory

Module
reset

RSA
signatur
e
verificat
ion

Input in
plaintext
through
data input
interface.

No
output.

10.1. SSP Generation

The module does not generate SSPs.

10.2. SSP Establishment

The module does not implement automated SSP establishment.

10.3. SSP Entry/Output

The module only supports manual distribution, electronic entry of the RSA public key, which is
provided in plaintext by the bootloader operator via the data input interface.

No other SSPs are entered into the module. No SSPs are output from the module.

10.4. SSP Storage

SSPs are provided to the module by the calling process and are destroyed when released by the
respective functions.

The module does not perform persistent storage of SSPs; keys in use by the module exist in
volatile memory only.

10.5. SSP Zeroization

The module’s functions deallocates and zeroizes temporary SSP values in volatile memory used
during the function’s execution. The zeroization consists of writing zeroes to the memory location
used by the SSP before deallocating the area. The module does not overwrite the SSP with another
SSP.

The zeroization service for the SSP in volatile memory consists of powering off the module, which
will remove power from the volatile memory. This action will cause the value of the SSP in volatile
memory to be overwritten by random values the next time the module is powered on. The
successful act of powering off the module serves as the implicit indicator of zeroization.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

20 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

10.6. Random Number Generation

The module does not implement random number generation.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

21 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

11.  Self Tests

The module performs pre-operational self-tests and conditional self-tests. While the module is
executing the self-tests, services are not available, and data output (via the data output interface)
is inhibited until the tests are successfully completed.

All the self-tests are listed in Table 11, with the respective condition under which those tests are
performed. The firmware integrity test is performed after all conditional algorithm self-tests
(CASTs) are performed.

Table 11: Self-tests.

Algorithm  Parameters

Condition for
Test

Type

Test

RSA

SHA2-384
and 4096-
bit key

SHA2-384  N/A

Power up

Conditional Algorithm
Self-Test

KAT signature verification

Pre-Operational Self-
Test

Digest verification on
bootloader firmware
component

Firmware
integrity test on
bootloader
component at
power up (after
all CASTs)

SHA2-384  N/A

Power up

Conditional Algorithm
Self-Test

KAT SHA2-384

11.1. Pre-Operational Self-Tests

The module performs pre-operational tests automatically when the module is powered on. The
pre-operational self-tests ensure that the module is not corrupted and that the cryptographic
algorithms work as expected. The module transitions to the operational state only after the pre-
operational self-tests are passed successfully.

The types of pre-operational self-tests are described in the next sub-sections.

11.1.1.  Firmware Integrity Test

The integrity of the bootloader component of the module (in firmware) is verified by comparing a
SHA2-384 digest value calculated at run time with the SHA2-384 digest value stored in the module
that was computed at build time. If the comparison verification fails, the module transitions to the
error state (Section 11.3). The SHA2-384 algorithm goes through its conditional algorithm self-test
before the integrity test is performed (Table 11).

The bootROM component of the module is considered non-reconfigurable memory, thus exempt
from the requirements of integrity test. The vendor declares that this bootROM component
composed of non-reconfigurable memory does not degrade before 10 (ten) years of manufacture
date, thus complying with the requirements of IG 5.A.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

22 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

11.2. Conditional Tests

11.2.1.  Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Tests

The module performs self-tests on all approved cryptographic algorithms as part of the approved
services supported in the approved mode of operation, using the tests shown in Table 11 and
indicated as Conditional Algorithm Self-Tests. Data output through the data output interface is
inhibited during the self-tests. The cryptographic algorithm self-tests are performed in the form of
Known Answer Tests (KATs), in which the calculated output is compared with the expected known
answer (that are hard-coded in the module). A failed match causes a failure of the self-test.

11.2.2.  Periodic/On-Demand Self-Test

The module performs on-demand self-tests initiated by the operator, by powering off and powering
the module back on. The full suite of self-tests in Table 11 is then executed.

The same procedure may be employed by the operator to perform periodic self-tests.

11.3. Error States

If the module fails any of the self-tests, the module enters the error state. In the error state, the
module outputs the error type through the status indicator and status output interface. In the error
state, the data output interface is inhibited and the module accepts no more inputs or requests.
The module does not implement a control output interface.

Table 12 lists the error state and the status indicator (through FW_STATUS variable) values that
explains the error that has occurred.

Table 12: Error states.

Error State

Error Condition

Status Indicator (FW_STATUS)

Error

SHA2-384 self-test error

Error code AA0000FB

RSA self-test error

Error code AA0000FC

Integrity test error

Error code AA0000FD

To recover from the error state (clearing the error condition), the module shall be restarted or
reset.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

23 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

12.  Life-Cycle Assurance

12.1. Delivery and Operation

12.1.1.  Procedures for Secure installation, Initialization, Start-up, and Operation of

the Module

The procedures herein described are directed at OEMs for producing and configuring their BIOS so
that the FIPS module is properly enabled to operate as the validated module in conformance with
the rules in this Security Policy document.

Once properly installed and enabled, no configuration is necessary for the module to operate. The
module automatically transitions to the approved mode when an approved service is invoked, and
to the non-approved mode when a non-approved service is invoked.

12.1.1.1.

To enable the FIPS capability

1.  Reserve 16KiB at least for Platform Security Processor level 1 directory, as the FIPS module
requires additional 8KiB of ROM space for the Platform Security Processor L1 Bootloader.

2.  The Platform BIOS must include the file with “_FIPS” postfix in the file name as Platform

Security Processor entry 0x1. For example, the file
PspBootLoader_stage1_prod_AB_RN_FIPS.sbin has “_FIPS” postfix in the file name. This file
is thus a FIPS capable Platform Security Processor boot loader. Conversely, the file
PspBootLoader_stage1_prod_AB_RN.sbin does not have “_FIPS” postfix in the file name,
making this file a non-FIPS capable Platform Security Processor boot loader.

3.  Set BIT 32 of Platform Security Processor soft fuse chain (Platform Security Processor entry

0xB) to enable FIPS capability.

a.  The BIT32 in Platform Security Processor entry 0xB is defined as FIPS capability
enablement. If 0, the FIPS capability is OFF; if 1, the FIPS mode is ON (i.e., the
module is properly installed as the validated module described in this document).

12.1.1.2.

To verify whether FIPS capability is on

1.  Boot the system into UEFI shell with secure boot disabled.

2.  Use the UEFI shell version of the AFF Tool version 0.3 and beyond. This tool is provided by
the vendor. Run the AFF Tool with the command: afftool –fips from the interactive UEFI
shell provided by the BIOS.

a.  If it shows “FIPS mode: on”, this is the FIPS capable module installed.

b.  If it shows “FIPS mode: off”, the module (described in this document) is disabled.

The screenshot in Figure 3 shows the usage of the AFF Tool. The output indicates that the FIPS
module is disabled. In this condition, the module does not operate in conformance with this
Security Policy document.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

24 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Figure 3: AFF Tool indicates that the module was not enabled.

The screenshot in Figure 4 again shows the usage of the AFF Tool. The output demonstrates that
the FIPS module is enabled and thus will operate as the FIPS validated module according to the
rules in this Security Policy document.

Figure 4: AFF Tool indicating that the module is enabled.

12.1.1.3.

How to Inspect the Service Indicator

The service indicator can be inspected by an external operator using the TEEC command with ID
16. When this command is sent (with the first parameter set to 1) to the trusted application loaded
on the AMD chip, the trusted application retrieves the FIPS status and version variables from the
AMD Trusted OS (TOS). The FIPS_selftest_status variable contains the service indicator:

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

25 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

•

•

If the first bit of this variable is set to 0, the service indicator is OFF.

If the first bit is set to 1, the service indicator is ON and an approved service is invoked.

12.1.2.  Maintenance Requirements

There are no maintenance requirements.

12.1.3.  End of Life

The process for performing “End of Life” occurs at the chronological point of 10 years starting from
manufacturing date of the module.

As stated in Section 10.4, the module does not possess persistent storage of SSPs. The SSP value
only exists in volatile memory and that value vanishes when the module is powered off. The
procedure for secure sanitization of the module at the end of life is simply to power it off, which is
the action of zeroization of the SSPs (Section 10.5) . As a result of this sanitization via power-off,
the SSP is removed from the module, so that the module may either be distributed to other
operators or disposed.

12.2. Administrator Guidance

All the functions, ports and logical interfaces described in this document are available to the
Crypto Officer. The module implicitly transitions between the approved mode and the non-
approved mode contingent on the service that is invoked. As such, there are no special procedures
to administer the modes of operation.

12.3. Non-Administrator Guidance

The module implements only the Crypto Officer. There are no requirements for non-administrator
operators.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

26 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

13.  Mitigation of Other Attacks

The module does not implement security mechanisms to mitigate other attacks.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

27 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

14.  Glossary and Abbreviations

AES

CAVP

CMVP

CSP

DRBG

FIPS

HMAC

HSTI

KAT

MAC

NIST

OS

PAA

PSS

RNG

RSA

SHA

SHS

XTS

Advanced Encryption Standard

Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program

Cryptographic Module Validation Program

Critical Security Parameter

Deterministic Random Bit Generator

Federal Information Processing Standards

Hash Message Authentication Code

(Microsoft) Hardware Security Test Interface

Known Answer Test

Message Authentication Code

National Institute of Science and Technology

Operating System

Processor Algorithm Acceleration

Probabilistic Signature Scheme

Random Number Generator

Rivest, Shamir, Addleman

Secure Hash Algorithm

Secure Hash Standard

XEX-based Tweaked-codebook mode with cipher text Stealing

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

28 of 29

AMD Ryzen PRO 6000 Series PSP Cryptographic CoProcessor

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

15.  References

FIPS PUB 180-4. Secure Hash Standard (SHS). (2012, 3). FIPS PUB 180-4. Secure Hash Standard

(SHS). Gaithersburg, MD 20899-8900: National Institute of Standards & Technology.
Retrieved from http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips/fips180-4/fips-180-4.pdf

FIPS PUB 186-4. Digital Signature Standard (DSS). (2013, 7). FIPS PUB 186-4. Digital Signature

Standard (DSS). https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-4.
doi:https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-4

Implementation Guidance for FIPS 140-3 and the Cryptographic Module Validation Program. (2021,

5 4). Implementation Guidance for FIPS 140-3 and the Cryptographic Module Validation
Program. Retrieved 03 8, 2021, from
https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Projects/cryptographic-module-validation-
program/documents/fips 140-3/FIPS 140-3 IG.pdf

ISO/IEC. (2012, 8). ISO/IEC 19790:2012 Information technology — Security techniques — Security

requirements for cryptographic modules. ISO/IEC 19790:2012 Information technology —
Security techniques — Security requirements for cryptographic modules. Retrieved from
https://www.iso.org/standard/52906.html

ISO/IEC. (2017, 3). ISO/IEC 24759:2017 Information technology — Security techniques — Test

requirements for cryptographic modules. ISO/IEC 24759:2017 Information technology —
Security techniques — Test requirements for cryptographic modules. Retrieved from
https://www.iso.org/standard/72515.html

National Institute of Standards Technology. (2019, 3). FIPS PUB 140-3. Security Requirements for

Cryptographic Modules. FIPS PUB 140-3. Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules.
Retrieved from https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.140-3.pdf

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

29 of 29

