Hewlett Packard Enterprise

Hewlett Packard Enterprise OpenSSL 3 Provider
Software version: 3.1.4a

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Document version: 0.8

Page 1 of 44

Table of Contents

1 General ................................................................................................................................... 5
1.1 Overview .......................................................................................................................... 5
1.2 Security Levels ................................................................................................................. 6
1.3 Additional Information ....................................................................................................... 7
2 Cryptographic Module Specification ........................................................................................ 8
2.1 Description ....................................................................................................................... 8
2.2 Tested and Vendor Affirmed Module Version and Identification ........................................ 9
2.3 Excluded Components .....................................................................................................15
2.4 Modes of Operation .........................................................................................................15
2.5 Algorithms .......................................................................................................................15
2.6 Security Function Implementations ..................................................................................18
2.7 Algorithm Specific Information .........................................................................................20
2.8 RBG and Entropy ............................................................................................................21
2.9 Key Generation................................................................................................................21
2.10 Key Establishment .........................................................................................................21
2.11 Industry Protocols ..........................................................................................................22
3 Cryptographic Module Interfaces............................................................................................23
3.1 Ports and Interfaces ........................................................................................................23
3.2 Trusted Channel Specification .........................................................................................23
3.3 Control Interface Not Inhibited .........................................................................................23
4 Roles, Services, and Authentication .......................................................................................24
4.1 Authentication Methods ...................................................................................................24
4.2 Roles ...............................................................................................................................24
4.3 Approved Services ..........................................................................................................24
4.4 Non-Approved Services ...................................................................................................27
4.5 External Software/Firmware Loaded ................................................................................28
4.6 Bypass Actions and Status ..............................................................................................28
4.7 Cryptographic Output Actions and Status ........................................................................28
5 Software/Firmware Security ...................................................................................................29
5.1 Integrity Techniques ........................................................................................................29
5.2 Initiate on Demand ..........................................................................................................29
5.3 Open-Source Parameters ................................................................................................29
6 Operational Environment........................................................................................................30
6.1 Operational Environment Type and Requirements ..........................................................30
6.2 Configuration Settings and Restrictions ...........................................................................30

Page 2 of 44

7 Physical Security ....................................................................................................................31
8 Non-Invasive Security ............................................................................................................32
9 Sensitive Security Parameters Management ..........................................................................33
9.1 Storage Areas .................................................................................................................33
9.2 SSP Input-Output Methods ..............................................................................................33
9.3 SSP Zeroization Methods ................................................................................................33
9.4 SSPs ...............................................................................................................................34
9.5 Transitions .......................................................................................................................38
10 Self-Tests .............................................................................................................................39
10.1 Pre-Operational Self-Tests ............................................................................................39
10.2 Conditional Self-Tests ....................................................................................................39
10.3 Periodic Self-Test Information ........................................................................................41
10.4 Error States ...................................................................................................................42
10.5 Operator Initiation of Self-Tests .....................................................................................42
11 Life-Cycle Assurance ...........................................................................................................43
11.1 Installation, Initialization, and Startup Procedures ..........................................................43
11.2 Administrator Guidance .................................................................................................43
11.3 Non-Administrator Guidance ..........................................................................................43
11.6 End of Life .....................................................................................................................43
12 Mitigation of Other Attacks ...................................................................................................44
12.1 Attack List ......................................................................................................................44
12.2 Mitigation Effectiveness .................................................................................................44
12.3 Guidance and Constraints .............................................................................................44

Page 3 of 44

List of Tables

Table 1: Security Levels ............................................................................................................. 6
Table 2: Tested Module Identification – Hardware ..................................................................... 9
Table 3: Tested Module Identification – Software, Firmware, Hybrid (Executable Code Sets) .... 9
Table 4: Tested Module Identification – Hybrid Disjoint Hardware .............................................. 9
Table 5: Tested Operational Environments - Software, Firmware, Hybrid .................................10
Table 6: Vendor-Affirmed Operational Environments - Software, Firmware, Hybrid ..................15
Table 7: Modes List and Description .........................................................................................15
Table 8  Approved Algorithms ...................................................................................................18
Table 9: Vendor-Affirmed Algorithms ........................................................................................18
Table 10: Security Function Implementations ............................................................................20
Table 11: Key Generation .........................................................................................................21
Table 12: Key Establishment .....................................................................................................21
Table 13: Ports and Interfaces ..................................................................................................23
Table 14: Roles .........................................................................................................................24
Table 15: Approved Services ....................................................................................................27
Table 16: Non-Approved Services.............................................................................................27
Table 17: Storage Areas ...........................................................................................................33
Table 18: SSP Input-Output Methods ........................................................................................33
Table 19: SSP Zeroization Methods ..........................................................................................33
Table 20: SSP Table 1 ..............................................................................................................36
Table 21: SSP Table 2 ..............................................................................................................38
Table 22: Pre-Operational Self-Tests ........................................................................................39
Table 23: Conditional Self-Tests ...............................................................................................41
Table 24: Error States ...............................................................................................................42

List of Figures

Figure 1: Block Diagram ............................................................................................................. 9

Page 4 of 44

1 General
1.1 Overview

This section describes:

•  The purpose of this document.
•  HPE documents related to this document contents.
•  Where to go for additional HPE Aruba Networking product information.
•  Acronyms and abbreviations.
•  The assurance security levels for each of the areas described in the FIPS 140-3

Standard.

This release supplement provides information regarding the Hewlett Packard Enterprise
OpenSSL 3 Provider Module software version 3.1.4a FIPS 140-3 Level 1 validation from HPE
Aruba Networking. HPE Aruba Networking is a Hewlett Packard Enterprise company. The
material in this supplement modifies the general Hewlett Packard Enterprise software
documentation included with this product and should be kept with your Hewlett Packard
Enterprise product documentation.

This supplement primarily covers the non-proprietary Cryptographic Module Security Policy for
the Hewlett Packard Enterprise OpenSSL 3 Provider Module software version 3.1.4a. This
security policy describes how the module meets the security requirements of FIPS 140-3 Level
1 and how to place and maintain the module in the secure FIPS 140-3 mode. This policy was
prepared as part of the FIPS 140-3 Level 1 validation of the product.

FIPS 140-3 (Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 140-3, Security
Requirements for Cryptographic Modules) details the U.S. Government requirements for
cryptographic modules. FIPS 140-3 aligns with ISO/IEC 19790:2012(E) and includes
modifications of the Annexes that are allowed to the Cryptographic Module Validation Program
(CMVP), as a validation authority. The testing for these requirements will be in accordance with
ISO/IEC 24759:2017(E), with the modifications, additions or deletions of vendor evidence and
testing allowed as a validation authority under paragraph 5.2. More information about the FIPS
140-3 standard and validation program is available on the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) website at:
https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program

In addition, in this document, the Hewlett Packard Enterprise OpenSSL 3 Provider Module is
referred to as the module, the cryptographic module, and HPE OpenSSL.

This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including the
copyright notice. Products identified herein contain confidential commercial software. Valid
license required.

Copyright
© 2024 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
trademarks include HPE Aruba Networking®, HPE Aruba Wireless Networks®, the registered
HPE Aruba Networking the Mobile Edge Company logo, HPE Aruba Networking Mobility
Management System®, Mobile Edge Architecture®, People Move. Networks Must Follow®,
RFProtect®, Green Island®. All rights reserved.  All other trademarks are the property of their
respective owners. HPE Aruba Networking is a Hewlett Packard Enterprise company.

Page 5 of 44

Open Source Code
Certain Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company products include Open Source software code
developed by third parties, including software code subject to the GNU General Public License
(GPL), GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL), or other Open Source Licenses. The Open
Source code used can be found at this site:
https://www.arubanetworks.com/open_source

Legal Notice
The use of HPE Aruba Networking switching platforms and software or firmware, by all
individuals or corporations, to terminate other vendors’ VPN client devices constitutes complete
acceptance of liability by that individual or corporation for this action and indemnifies, in full,
HPE Aruba Networking. from any and all legal actions that might be taken against it with respect
to infringement of copyright on behalf of those vendors.

Crypto Officer

Advanced Encryption Standard

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AES
CAVP  Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program
CBC   Cipher Block Chaining
CCCS  Canadian Centre for Cyber Security, a branch of CSE
CMVP  Cryptographic Module Validation Program
CO
CSE   Communications Security Establishment
CSP   Critical Security Parameter
HMAC   Hashed Message Authentication Code
KAT
PCT
PSP
SHA   Secure Hash Algorithm
SSP

Known Answer Test
Pairwise Consistency Test
Public Security Parameter

Sensitive Security Parameter

1.2 Security Levels

Section

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12

Security
Level
1
1
1
1
1
1
N/A
N/A
1
1
1
1

Table 1: Security Levels

Page 6 of 44

1.3 Additional Information

More information is available from the following sources:

•  See the Hewlett Packard Enterprise web site for the full line of products from HPE:

https://www.hpe.com

•  See the HPE Aruba Networking web site for the full line of products from HPE Aruba

Networking:
https://www.arubanetworks.com

•  The NIST Validated Modules web site contains contact information for answers to

technical or sales-related questions for the product:
https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/validated-
modules/search

Enter Hewlett Packard Enterprise in the Vendor field then select Search to see a list of
FIPS validated Hewlett Packard Enterprise or HPE Aruba Networking products.

Select the Certificate Number for the Module Name ‘Hewlett Packard Enterprise
OpenSSL 3 Provider Module’.

Page 7 of 44

2 Cryptographic Module Specification

2.1 Description

Purpose and Use:

The Hewlett Packard Enterprise OpenSSL 3 Provider Module (also referred to as ‘the module’)
is a software type cryptographic module and was validated under FIPS 140-3 Level 1
requirements. The Hewlett Packard Enterprise OpenSSL 3 Provider Module is one of the
components within a variety of Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HPE Aruba Networking
products, including the Aruba Mobility Conductors, Mobility Controllers/Gateways, and
controller-managed HPE Aruba Networking Access Points (APs) running the HPE ANW
Wireless Operating System (AOS) operating system running on the HPE Aruba Networking
hardware-based equipment or HPE Aruba Networking virtual appliances. The module provides
cryptographic services for these products and is installed automatically as part of the product’s
software package. For HPE Aruba Networking products, software is installed by HPE Aruba
Networking technical support personnel or downloaded from the HPE Aruba Networking
Support Portal (ASP) by authenticated licensed customer personnel.

Hewlett Packard Enterprise's development processes are such that future releases under
Hewlett Packard Enterprise OpenSSL 3 Provider Module should be FIPS validate-able and
meet the claims made in this document. Only the versions that explicitly appear on the
certificate, however, are formally validated. Any version of this module that is not shown on the
module certificate is out of the scope of this validation and requires a separate FIPS 140-3
validation. The CMVP makes no claim as to the correct operation of the module or the security
strengths of the generated keys when operating under a version that is not listed on the
validation certificate.

Module Type: Software

Module Embodiment: Multichip Standalone

Module Characteristics:

Cryptographic Boundary:

The Hewlett Packard Enterprise OpenSSL 3 Provider Module is comprised of a single
component, which is a dynamically loadable OpenSSL 3 provider. The boundary of the module
is defined as the shared library file, which on Unix/Linux is fips.so.

Tested Operational Environment’s Physical Perimeter (TOEPP):

The physical perimeter is the production grade enclosure of the hardware chassis of the HPE or
HPE Aruba Networking hardware device or virtual appliance host.

Page 8 of 44

HPE or HPE Aruba Networking Hardware or Virtual Appliance Host

Operating System

Module Boundary

fips.so

API

Data In
Data Out
Control In
Status Out

Hardware

Storage

Volatile
Memory

Network

CPU

Figure 1: Block Diagram

2.2 Tested and Vendor Affirmed Module Version and Identification

Tested Module Identification – Hardware:

Model and/or Part
Number
N/A

Hardware
Version
N/A

Firmware
Version
N/A

Table 2: Tested Module Identification – Hardware

Processors

Features

N/A

N/A

Tested Module Identification – Software, Firmware, Hybrid (Executable Code Sets):

Package or File
Name
fips.so

Software/ Firmware
Version
3.1.4a

Features

Integrity Test

FIPS provider for
OpenSSL 3

HMAC-SHA2-256

Table 3: Tested Module Identification – Software, Firmware, Hybrid (Executable Code Sets)

Tested Module Identification – Hybrid Disjoint Hardware:

Model and/or
Part Number
N/A

Hardware
Version
N/A

Firmware
Version
N/A

Table 4: Tested Module Identification – Hybrid Disjoint Hardware

Processors

Features

N/A

N/A

Page 9 of 44

Tested Operational Environments - Software, Firmware, Hybrid:

Operating
System
Ubuntu 22.04  HPE ProLiant

Hardware
Platform

ML 110
Gen10

Ubuntu 22.04  HPE ProLiant

ML 110
Gen10

Processors

PAA/PAI

Intel® Xeon®
Silver 4110
(Skylake)
Intel® Xeon®
Silver 4110
(Skylake)

Yes

No

Table 5: Tested Operational Environments - Software, Firmware, Hybrid

Hypervisor
or Host OS
VMWare
ESXi 6.7

VMWare
ESXi 6.7

Version(s)

3.1.4a

3.1.4a

Vendor-Affirmed Operational Environments - Software, Firmware, Hybrid:

Operating System
 HPE ANW CX Switch Operating System
(AOS-CX) 10.16 or later
HPE ANW CX Switch Operating System
(AOS-CX) 10.16 or later
HPE ANW CX Switch Operating System
(AOS-CX) 10.16 or later
HPE ANW CX Switch Operating System
(AOS-CX) 10.16 or later
HPE ANW CX Switch Operating System
(AOS-CX) 10.16 or later
HPE ANW CX Switch Operating System
(AOS-CX) 10.16 or later
HPE ANW CX Switch Operating System
(AOS-CX) 10.16 or later
HPE ANW CX Switch Operating System
(AOS-CX) 10.16 or later
HPE ANW CX Switch Operating System
(AOS-CX) 10.16 or later
HPE ANW CX Switch Operating System
(AOS-CX) 10.16 or later
HPE ANW CX Switch Operating System
(AOS-CX) 10.16 or later
HPE ANW CX Switch Operating System
(AOS-CX) 10.16 or later
HPE ANW CX Switch Operating System
(AOS-CX) 10.16 or later
HPE ANW CX Switch Operating System
(AOS-CX) 10.16 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later

Hardware Platform
6200F

6200M

6300

6300L

6400

8100

8320

8325

8325P

8360

8400

9300

9300S

10000

EC-XS

EC-US

EC-10104

Page 10 of 44

Operating System
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later running on VMware
ESXi/ESX 6.7
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later running on VMware
ESXi/ESX 7.0
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later running on Red Hat
KVM 8.x
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later running on KVM, QEMU
4.x

Hardware Platform
EC-XS

EC-XS (2020)

EC-10106

EC-10108

EC-S

EC-S-P

EC-M

EC-M-P

EC-M-P

EC-M-H

EC-L, EC-L-NM

EC-L-P, EC-L-P-NM

EC-L-H

EC-XL, EC-XL-NM

EC-XL-P, EC-XL-P-NM (10G)

EC-XL-P, EC-XL-P-NM (25G)

EC-XL-H

EC-V

EC-V

EC-V

EC-V

EC-V

Page 11 of 44

Operating System
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later running on Microsoft
Hyper V 10.0
HPE ANW EdgeConnect Operating System
(AOS-EC) 9.6 or later running on Citrix Xen
Server 8.1.0
HPE ANW Orchestrator 9.6 or later running on
VMware ESXi/ESX 6.7
HPE ANW Networking Orchestrator 9.6 or
later running on VMware ESXi/ESX 7.0
HPE ANW Networking Orchestrator 9.6 or
later running on Red Hat KVM 8.x
HPE ANW Networking Orchestrator 9.6 or
later running on KVM, QEMU 4.x
HPE ANW Networking Orchestrator 9.6 or
later running on Microsoft Hyper V 10.0
HPE ANW Networking Orchestrator 9.6 or
later running on Citrix Xen Server 8.1.0
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13

Hardware Platform
EC-V

EC-V

Orchestrator on-prem

Orchestrator on-prem

Orchestrator on-prem

Orchestrator on-prem

Orchestrator on-prem

Orchestrator on-prem

AP-51x and AP-57x Wireless Access Points

AP-50x and AP-56x Wireless Access Points

AP-53x, AP-555, AP-58x, and AP-63x
Wireless Access Points
AP-515 Wireless Access Point

AP-535 Wireless Access Point

AP-605 Wireless Access Point

AP-610 Wireless Access Point

AP-630 Wireless Access Point

AP-635 Wireless Access Point

AP-650 Wireless Access Point

AP-655 Wireless Access Point

AP-670 Wireless Access Point

AP-730 Wireless Access Point

AP-750 Wireless Access Point

70xx Mobility Controllers

Page 12 of 44

Operating System
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13 running on VMWare ESXi 7.0
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13 running on VMWare ESXi 7.0
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13 running on VMWare ESXi 7.0
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13 running on VMWare ESXi 7.0
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13 running on VMWare ESXi 7.0
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
8.13 running on VMWare ESXi 7.0

HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8

Hardware Platform
72xx Mobility Controllers

7220 Mobility Controller

90xx Gateways

92xx Gateways

9012 Gateway

MCR-HW-5K Mobility Conductor Hardware
Appliance
MC-VA-50 Mobility Controller Virtual
Appliance on HPE ProLiant ML110 Gen10
MCR-HW-xxx Mobility Conductor Hardware
Appliances
MC-VA-xxx Mobility Controller Virtual
Appliances on HPE ProLiant ML110 Gen10
MCR-VA-xxx Mobility Conductor Virtual
Appliances on HPE ProLiant ML110 Gen10
Virtual Appliances on HPE EdgeLine 20

Virtual Appliances on PacStar PS451-1258
Series
Virtual Appliances on device running an
equivalent Intel processor (Intel Atom, i5, i7,
or Xeon)
AP-51x and AP-57x Wireless Access Points

AP-50x and AP-56x Wireless Access Points

AP-53x, AP-555, AP-58x, and AP-63x
Wireless Access Points
AP-515 Wireless Access Point

AP-535 Wireless Access Point

AP-605 Wireless Access Point

AP-610 Wireless Access Point

AP-630 Wireless Access Point

AP-635 Wireless Access Point

AP-650 Wireless Access Point

AP-655 Wireless Access Point

Page 13 of 44

Operating System
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8 running on VMWare ESXi 7.0
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8 running on VMWare ESXi 7.0
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8 running on VMWare ESXi 7.0
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8 running on VMWare ESXi 7.0
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8 running on VMWare ESXi 7.0
HPE ANW Wireless Operating System (AOS)
10.8 running on VMWare ESXi 7.0

HPE ANW Clearpass (CPPM) 6.14 or later
HPE ANW Clearpass (CPPM) 6.14 or later
HPE ANW Clearpass (CPPM) 6.14 or later
running on VMware ESXi up to 8.0
HPE ANW Clearpass (CPPM) 6.14 or later
running on Microsoft Hyper-V 2016/2019
R2/2019
HPE ANW Clearpass (CPPM) 6.14 or later
running on KVM on CentOS 7.7, Ubuntu
18.04, and Ubuntu 20.04
HPE ANW Clearpass (CPPM) 6.14 or later
running on Amazon AWS (EC2)

Hardware Platform
AP-670 Wireless Access Point

AP-730 Wireless Access Point

AP-750 Wireless Access Point

70xx Mobility Controllers

72xx Mobility Controllers

7220 Mobility Controller

90xx Gateways

92xx Gateways

9012 Gateway

MCR-HW-5K Mobility Conductor Hardware
Appliance
MC-VA-50 Mobility Controller Virtual
Appliance on HPE ProLiant ML110 Gen10
MCR-HW-xxx Mobility Conductor Hardware
Appliances
MC-VA-xxx Mobility Controller Virtual
Appliances on HPE ProLiant ML110 Gen10
MCR-VA-xxx Mobility Conductor Virtual
Appliances on HPE ProLiant ML110 Gen10
Virtual Appliances on HPE EdgeLine 20

Virtual Appliances on PacStar PS451-1258
Series
Virtual Appliances on device running an
equivalent Intel processor (Intel Atom, i5, i7,
or Xeon)
Unicom S1200-R4
HPE ProLiant DL360
X86 Architecture

X86 Architecture

X86 Architecture

X86 Architecture

Page 14 of 44

Operating System
HPE ANW Clearpass (CPPM) 6.14 or later
running on Amazon AWS (EC2)

Hardware Platform
X86 Architecture

Table 6: Vendor-Affirmed Operational Environments - Software, Firmware, Hybrid

CMVP makes no statement as to the correct operation of the module or the security strengths of
the generated keys when so ported if the specific operational environment is not listed on the
validation certificate.

2.3 Excluded Components

Not Applicable – There are no excluded components for the module.

2.4 Modes of Operation

Modes List and Description:

Name
Approved Mode

Description
When configured per
the administrator
guidance, the module
only supports
approved services.

Table 7: Modes List and Description

Type
Approved

Status Indicator
Successful service
completion.

When configured per section 11.2 Administrator Guidance, the module only supports approved
services in an approved manner.

Mode Change Instructions and Status:

Not Applicable – The module only supports a single approved mode of operation.

Degraded Mode Description:

Not Applicable – The module does not support a degraded mode of operation.

2.5 Algorithms

Approved Algorithms:

CAVP
Cert

A4803

Algorithm
and
Standard
AES-CBC

Mode/Method  Description/Key

Use/Function

AES

Size/Key
Strength
128,192,256 bits

Data Encryption/
Decryption
Data Encryption/
Decryption
Data Encryption/
Decryption

A4803

AES-CCM

AES

128,192,256 bits

A4803

AES-
CFB128

AES

128,192,256 bits

Page 15 of 44

CAVP
Cert

A4803

Algorithm
and
Standard
AES-CFB8

AES

Size/Key
Strength
128,192,256 bits

Mode/Method  Description/Key

Use/Function

A4803

AES-CMAC  AES

128,192,256 bits

A4803
A4803

AES-CTR
AES-ECB

AES
AES

128-256 bits
128,192,256 bits

A4803

AES-GCM

AES

128,192,256 bits

A4803

AES-GMAC  AES

128,192,256 bits

Data Encryption/
Decryption
Message
Authentication
DRBG
Data Encryption/
Decryption
Data Encryption/
Decryption
Message
Authentication
Key Transport
Key Transport
Data Encryption/
Decryption
Data Encryption/
Decryption

Generate random
numbers with SP800-
90A Rev 1
Generate an
asymmetric keypair

Verify an
asymmetric keypair
parameters
Generate digital
signatures

128,192,256 bits
128,192,256 bits
128,192,256 bits

128,256 bits

128,192,256 bits

≥ 112 bits

≥ 112 bits

≥ 112 bits

≥ 112 bits

Verify digital signatures

224 bits

256 bits

384 bits

512 bits

224 bits

256 bits

384 bits

Page 16 of 44

Message
Authentication
Message
Authentication
Message
Authentication
Message
Authentication
Message
Authentication
Message
Authentication
Message
Authentication

A4803
A4803
A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

AES-KW
AES-KWP
AES-OFB

AES-XTS
Testing
Revision 2.0
Counter
DRBG

ECDSA
KeyGen
(FIPS186-4)
ECDSA
KeyVer
(FIPS186-4)
ECDSA
SigGen
(FIPS186-4)
ECDSA
SigVer
(FIPS186-4)
HMAC-
SHA2-224
HMAC-
SHA2-256
HMAC-
SHA2-384
HMAC-
SHA2-512
HMAC-
SHA3-224
HMAC-
SHA3-256
HMAC-
SHA3-384

AES
AES
AES

AES

Counter
DRBG

ECDSA
KeyGen
(FIPS186
ECDSA
KeyVer
(FIPS186
ECDSA
SigGen
(FIPS186
ECDSA
SigVer
(FIPS186
HMAC

HMAC

HMAC

HMAC

HMAC

HMAC

HMAC

Mode/Method  Description/Key

Use/Function

HMAC

KAS

Size/Key
Strength
512 bits

112 to 256 bits

KAS

112 to 256 bits

KAS

112 to 200 bits

KDA HKDF
SP800

≥ 112 bits

KDA OneStep
SP800

≥ 112 bits

Message
Authentication
Shared Secret
Computation

Shared Secret
Computation

Shared Secret
Computation

Key Derivation
Function

Key Derivation
Function

KDA TwoStep
SP800

≥ 112 bits

Key Derivation
Function

CAVP
Cert

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

Algorithm
and
Standard
HMAC-
SHA3-512
KAS-ECC
CDH-
Component
SP800-
56Ar3
KAS-ECC-
SSC Sp800-
56Ar3
KAS-FFC-
SSC Sp800-
56Ar3
KDA HKDF
SP800-
56Cr2
KDA
OneStep
SP800-
56Cr2
KDA
TwoStep
SP800-
56Cr2
KDF KMAC
Sp800-108r1
KDF SP800-
108
KDF SSH

KDF KMAC
Sp800
KDF SP800

≥ 112 bits

≥ 112 bits

KDF SSH

≥ 112 bits

A4803

KMAC-128

KMAC

128 bits

A4803

KMAC-256

KMAC

256 bits

A4803
A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803
A4803

PBKDF
RSA
KeyGen
(FIPS186-4)
RSA SigGen
(FIPS186-4)
RSA SigVer
(FIPS186-4)
RSA
Signature
Primitive
SHA2-224
SHA2-256

PBKDF
RSA KeyGen
(FIPS186

≥ 112 bits
2048 bits

RSA SigGen
(FIPS186
RSA SigVer
(FIPS186
RSA Signature
Primitive

128-256 bits

128-256 bits

128-256 bits

Message
Authentication
Key Derivation

Key Derivation
Function
Message
Authentication
Message
Authentication
Perform key derivation
Generate RSA key pair

Generate RSA digital
signatures
Verify RSA digital
signatures
Generate RSA digital
signatures

SHA2
SHA2

224 bits
256 bits

Message Digest
Message Digest

Page 17 of 44

CAVP
Cert

A4803
A4803
A4803
A4803
A4803
A4803
A4803
A4803
A4803

A4803

A4803

A4803

Mode/Method  Description/Key

SHA2
SHA2
SHA3
SHA3
SHA3
SHA3

Algorithm
and
Standard
SHA2-384
SHA2-512
SHA3-224
SHA3-256
SHA3-384
SHA3-512
SHAKE-128  SHAKE
SHAKE-256  SHAKE
Safe Primes
Key
Generation
Safe Primes
Key
Verification
TLS v1.2
KDF
RFC7627
TLS v1.3
KDF

Safe Primes
Key
Generation
Safe Primes
Key
Verification
TLS v1.2 KDF
RFC7627

Size/Key
Strength
384 bits
512 bits
224 bits
256 bits
384 bits
512 bits
128 bits
256 bits
≥ 112 bits

≥ 112 bits

≥ 112 bits

TLS v1.3 KDF  ≥ 112 bits

Use/Function

Message Digest
Message Digest
Message Digest
Message Digest
Message Digest
Message Digest
Message Digest
Message Digest
Safe Primes Key
Generation

Safe Primes Key
Verification

Key Derivation
Function

Key Derivation
Function

Table 8  Approved Algorithms

Vendor-Affirmed Algorithms:

Name
CKG

Properties
Symmetric keys, seeds
for asymmetric keys

Implementation
-

Reference
SP 800-133r2 section
4

Table 9: Vendor-Affirmed Algorithms

The module does not implement any non-approved but allowed algorithms.

The module does not implement any non-approved but allowed algorithms with no security
claimed.

The module does not implement any non-approved, not allowed algorithms.

2.6 Security Function Implementations

Name
Data
Encryption,
Decryption
Key Derivation
Function

Type
AES

Description  Properties
Encrypt or
decrypt data

Provides 128 to 256
bits of strength

PBKDF,
KBKDF,
KDA, CVL

Perform key
derivation
using a key

Provides ≥ 112 bits

Algorithms
CBC, CFB128, CFB8,
OFB, XTS, ECB, CTR,
GCM, CCM, KW, KWP
SSH, TLS v1.2 RFC
7627, TLS v1.3,
PBKDF, KBKDF, KDA

Page 18 of 44

Name

Type

Deterministic
Random Bit
Generation

DRBG

Digital
Signature

RSA,
ECDSA

Message
Authentication

Shared Secret
Computation

AES,
HMAC,
KMAC
KAS-SSC-
ECC

Shared Secret
Computation

KAS-SSC-
FFC

Key
Generation

RSA,
ECDSA,
SafePrimes

Key Transport  KTS

Provides 128 to 256
bits of strength

Provides 128 to 256
bits of strength

Provides ≥ 112 bits

Provides 112 to 256
bits of strength

Description  Properties
derivation
function
Generate
random
numbers with
SP800-90A
Rev 1
Generate or
verify RSA or
ECDSA
digital
signatures
Generate or
verify data
integrity
Perform key
agreement
primitives on
behalf of the
calling
process
(does not
establish
keys into the
module)
Perform key
agreement
primitives on
behalf of the
calling
process
(does not
establish
keys into the
module)
Generate
and verify an
asymmetric
keypair and
DH
parameters
AES

Provides 112 to 200
bits of strength

Provides ≥ 112 bits

Provides 128 to 256
bits of strength

Algorithms

CTR DRBG

RSA Sig Gen, RSA Sig
Ver, ECDSA Sig Gen,
ECDSA Sig Ver

CMAC Gen, GMAC
Gen, HMAC Gen,
KMAC Gen
KAS-ECC-SSC, KAS-
ECC CDH-Component

KAS-FFC-SSC

RSA Key Gen, ECDSA
Key Gen, ECDSA Key
Ver, Safe Prime Gen,
Safe Prime Ver

GCM, CCM, KW, KWP
or
AES CBC, CFB128,
CFB8, OFB, ECB,
CTR with HMAC or
CMAC

Page 19 of 44

Name
Message
digest

Type
SHS, SHA-
3, SHAKE

Description  Properties
Generate a
message
digest

Provides 112 to 256
bits of strength

Algorithms
SHA2-224, SHA2-256,
SHA2-384, SHA2-512,
SHA3-224, SHA3-256,
SHA3-384, SHA3-512,
SHAKE-128, SHAKE-
256

Table 10: Security Function Implementations

2.7 Algorithm Specific Information

TLS and SSH
No parts of the TLS or SSH protocols, other than the KDF, have been reviewed or tested by the
CAVP and CMVP.

AES GCM
The module supports AES-GCM in the context of TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3. The module’s
implementation of AES-GCM is used together with an application that runs outside the module’s
cryptographic boundary. For TLS v1.2, the module’s GCM implementation is compatible with
RFC 5288 and the ciphersuites from section 3.3.1 of SP 800-52 rev 2. When the counter
(nonce_explicit) part of the IV exhausts the maximum number of possible values for session
key, the module will return an error, triggering a handshake to establish a new encryption key.
For TLS v1.3, the module’s GCM implementation is compatible with RFC 8446.

The module also supports randomly generated IVs. The IV is generated using the module’s
Approved DRBG and the minimum length of the IV is 96 bits.

If power on the host system is lost, the operator must reestablish new keys.

AES XTS
When XTS keys are loaded the module performs a key check per IG C.I to ensure that Key_1 ≠
Key_2.

PBKDF
The module's implementation of PBKDF,

•  Uses option 1a from FIPS 140-3 IG D.N, for deriving a data protection key
•  Requires passwords between 8 and 128 ASCII characters long. The likelihood of

guessing this password at random is 1-in-6.1x1015.

•  Uses an iteration count of 1 to 10,000.

Page 20 of 44

2.8 RBG and Entropy

The module receives entropy passively via a callback per IG 9.3.A scenario 2 (b). The caveat
'No assurance of the minimum strength of generated SSPs' applies. The callback must provide
a minimum of 112 bits of entropy or return an error if this minimum cannot be met.

2.9 Key Generation

Name
RSA Key

Type
CKG

EC Key

CKG

FFC Key

CKG

Table 11: Key Generation

Properties
Key Type: Asymmetric
FIPS 186-4 B.3.6
Key Type: Asymmetric
SP 800-56A rev 3 5.6.1.2.2, FIPS 186-4 B.4.2
Key Type: Asymmetric
SP800-56A rev 3 5.6.1.1.4

Key generation is provided as a service to the calling application. Generated keys are not used
directly by the module.

2.10 Key Establishment

Name
AEAD

Cipher
CMAC

Cipher
HMAC

Type
KTS-Wrap

KTS-Wrap

KTS-Wrap

KW/KWP

KTS-Wrap

ECDH

KAS-ECC-
SSC

DH

KAS-FFC-
SSC

Table 12: Key Establishment

Properties
Cipher: AES-GCM, AES-CCM
Key sizes: 128, 192, 256
Cipher: AES ECB, CBC, OFB, CFB 8, CFB 128, CTR
Authentication: AES-CMAC
Key sizes: 128, 192, 256
Cipher: AES ECB, CBC, OFB, CFB 8, CFB 128, CTR
Authentication: HMAC with SHA2-224, 256, 384, 512, SHA3-
224, 256, 384, 512
Key sizes: 128, 192, 256
Cipher Modes: KW, KWP
Key sizes: 128, 192, 256
Domain Parameter Generation Methods: P-224, P-256, P-384,
P-521
Scheme: ephemeralUnified
KAS Role: initiator, responder
Domain Parameter Generation Methods: ffdhe2048, ffdhe3072,
ffdhe4096, ffdhe6144, ffdhe8192, MODP-2048, MODP-3072,
MODP-4096, MODP-6144, MODP-8192
Scheme: dhEphem
KAS Role: initiator, responder

The methods of key transport are approved per FIPS 140-3 IG D.G.

The methods of shared secret computation are approved per FIPS 140-3 IG D.F

Page 21 of 44

Key transport and key agreement are provided as services to the calling application.
Established keys are not used directly by the module.

2.11 Industry Protocols

The module implements the KDFs for TLS 1.2, TLS 1.3, and SSH, however does not implement
these protocols.

Page 22 of 44

3 Cryptographic Module Interfaces

3.1 Ports and Interfaces

Physical Port
N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A

Logical Interface
Data Input
Data Output

Control Input
Status Output

Table 13: Ports and Interfaces

Data That Passes
API input parameters for data
API output parameters for
data
API function calls
API return codes, status
information, error codes

As a software module, the module interfaces are defined as Software or Firmware Module
Interfaces (SFMI), and there are no physical ports. The logical interfaces are defined as the API
of the cryptographic module.

All data output via data output interface is inhibited when the module is performing pre-
operational tests or zeroization or when the module enters error state.

Notes:

•  The module does not implement a control output interface.
•  As software, the module does not have a power interface.

3.2 Trusted Channel Specification

Not applicable – The module does not implement a trusted channel.

3.3 Control Interface Not Inhibited

Not applicable – The module does not implement a control interface.

Page 23 of 44

4 Roles, Services, and Authentication

4.1 Authentication Methods

The Hewlett Packard Enterprise OpenSSL 3 Provider Module does not provide any identification
or authentication methods of its own.

4.2 Roles

Name

Crypto Officer

User

Table 14: Roles

Type

Role

Role

Operator Type

CO

User

Authentication
Methods
N/A - Authentication
not required for Level
1
N/A - Authentication
not required for Level
1

The module supports two distinct operator roles: the Crypto Officer (CO) role and the User role.
These roles are implicitly assumed by the operator of the module when performing a service.
The module does not support multiple concurrent operators, a maintenance role, nor bypass
capability.

4.3 Approved Services
Name

Description

Indicator

Initialize
Module

Data
Encryption,
Decryption

The CO
loads and
initializes
the module.
Encrypt or
decrypt data

N/A

Successful
completion

Inputs  Outputs  Security
Function
s
None

Status

N/A

Status,
ciphertext
or
plaintext

Parame
ters,
plaintex
t or
ciphert
ext, key

Roles  SSP

Access

CO

None

User

AES Key:
W, E

User

KDF
Secret: W,
E
PBKDF
Password:
W, E

CBC,
CFB128,
CFB8,
OFB,
XTS,
ECB,
CTR,
GCM,
CCM, KW,
KWP
SSH, TLS
v1.2 RFC
7627, TLS
v1.3,
PBKDF,

Key Derivation
Function

Perform key
derivation
using a key
derivation
function

Successful
completion

Parame
ters,
key/pas
sword

Status,
derived
key

Page 24 of 44

Name

Description

Indicator

Inputs  Outputs  Security
Function
s
KBKDF,
KDA

Roles  SSP

Access

KBKDF
Key: W, E
Derived
Key: G, R
PBKDF
Derived
Key: G, R
KBKDF
Derived
Key: G, R
DRBG
Entropy
input: W
DRBG
Seed: G, E
DRBG Key:
G, E
DRBG V:
G, E
RSA
Signature
Public Key:
W, E
RSA
Signature
Private
Key: W, E
ECDSA
Signature
Public Key:
W, E
ECDSA
Signature
Private
Key: W, E
HMAC Key:
W, E
KMAC Key:
W, E
AES Key:
W, E
DH Public
Key: W, E
DH Private
Key: W, E

Deterministic
Random Bit
Generation

Generate
random
numbers
with SP800-
90A Rev 1

Successful
completion

N/A

Status,
random
number

DRBG

User

Digital
Signature

Successful
completion

Generate or
verify RSA
or ECDSA
digital
signatures

Status,
digital
signature
1

Parame
ters,
RSA /
ECDSA
keys,
messag
e

RSA,
ECDSA

User

Message
Authentication

Generate or
verify data
integrity

Successful
completion

Parame
ters,
messag
e, key

Status,
message
authentic
ation
code2

CMAC,
GMAC,
HMAC,
KMAC

Shared Secret
Computation

Perform key
agreement
primitives
on behalf of

Successful
completion

Parame
ters,
DH/EC

Status,
shared
secret

KAS-
ECC-
SSC,

User

User

1 Generate only
2 Generate only

Page 25 of 44

Name

Description

Indicator

Inputs  Outputs  Security
Function
s
KAS-FFC-
SSC

DH
keys

Roles  SSP

Access

the calling
process
(does not
establish
keys into
the module)

Generate
and verify
an
asymmetric
keypair and
DH
parameters

Key
Generation

EC DH
Public Key:
W, E
EC DH
Private
Key: W, E
EC DH
Shared
Secret: G,
R
DH Shared
Secret: G,
R
DRBG
Entropy
input: W
DRBG
Seed: G, E
DRBG Key:
G, E
DRBG V:
G, E
RSA
Signature
Public Key:
G, R
RSA
Signature
Private
Key: G, R
ECDSA
Signature
Public Key:
G, R
ECDSA
Signature
Private
Key: G, R
DH Public
Key: G, R
DH Private
Key: G, R
EC DH
Public Key:
G, R
EC DH
Private
Key: G, R

Successful
completion

Parame
ters

Status,
keypair

User

RSA,
ECDSA,
Safe
Primes

Page 26 of 44

Name

Description

Indicator

Key
Wrapping/unwr
apping

AES

Successful
completion

Message
digest

Zeroize

Show Status

Successful
completion

N/A

N/A

Generate a
message
digest

Zeroize all
SSPs
Query the
module for
status

Status,
plaintext
or
ciphertext
key

Parame
ters,
plaintex
t or
ciphert
ext key,
transpo
rt
key(s)

Inputs  Outputs  Security
Function
s
GCM,
CCM, KW,
KWP
or
AES CBC,
CFB128,
CFB8,
OFB,
ECB, CTR
with
HMAC or
CMAC
SHA-1,
SHA2,
SHA3

Parame
ters,
Messag
e
None

Status,
Digest of
the
message
Status

Roles  SSP

Access

User

Key
Wrapping
Key: W, E

User

N/A

None

CO

All SSPs: Z

None

Status

None

CO

N/A

N/A

None

Status,
module
version

None

CO

N/A

N/A

None

Status

HMAC-
SHA2-256

CO

N/A

On demand
self-test

Show Version  Query the
module for
name and
version
information
Perform
FIPS start-
up tests on
demand
through the
module’s
API or by
rebooting
the host
platform.

Table 15: Approved Services

4.4 Non-Approved Services

Name
N/A

Description
N/A

Security Functions
N/A

Role
N/A

Table 16: Non-Approved Services

Not applicable – The module does not implement any non-approved services.

Page 27 of 44

4.5 External Software/Firmware Loaded

Not applicable – The module does not implement software loading.

4.6 Bypass Actions and Status

Not applicable – The module does not implement bypass.

4.7 Cryptographic Output Actions and Status

Not applicable – The module does not implement self-initiated cryptographic output capability.

Page 28 of 44

5 Software/Firmware Security

5.1 Integrity Techniques

The module performs a software integrity test when initialized. The test is performed by
calculating the HMAC-SHA2-256 value of the module’s shared library file and comparing it with
the expected value in the module’s configuration file. Prior to performing the integrity test, the
module performs a HMAC-SHA2-256 KAT. If the integrity test fails, the module enters an error
state where no cryptographic operations are possible.

5.2 Initiate on Demand

The software integrity test can be initiated on demand using the on demand self-test service.

5.3 Open-Source Parameters

The module is distributed in binary form.

Page 29 of 44

6 Operational Environment

6.1 Operational Environment Type and Requirements

Type of Operational Environment: Modifiable

How Requirements are Satisfied:

The module’s operational environment is Linux, multi-threaded operating system that supports
memory protection between processes. The operating control mechanisms protect against
unauthorized execution, unauthorized modification, and unauthorized reading of SSPs, control
and status data.

6.2 Configuration Settings and Restrictions

No specific configuration settings or restrictions are required.

Page 30 of 44

7 Physical Security
Not applicable – The module is implemented exclusively in software.

Page 31 of 44

8 Non-Invasive Security
Not Applicable – The module does not implement any non-invasive security mitigation
techniques.

Page 32 of 44

9 Sensitive Security Parameters Management

9.1 Storage Areas

Storage Area Name
Volatile Memory

Table 17: Storage Areas

Description
All SSPs are stored in the
volatile memory of the
Operational Environment.

Persistence Type
Dynamic

As specified in the Storage Areas table, the module does not persistently store any SSPs.

9.2 SSP Input-Output Methods

Name

From

To

API Entry

Calling
application
memory
API Output  Module
memory

Module
memory

Calling
application
memory

Table 18: SSP Input-Output Methods

Format
Type
Plaintext

Distribution
Type
Manual

Entry
Type
Electronic  N/A

SFI or
Algorithm

Plaintext

Manual

Electronic  N/A

As specified in the SSP Input-Output table, all SSPs are input and/or output via the module’s
API within the module’s operational environment.

9.3 SSP Zeroization Methods

Zeroization Method  Description
Reboot

All SSPs are zeroized
by rebooting the host
platform.

Table 19: SSP Zeroization Methods

Rationale
SSPs are only stored
in volatile memory
and so are zeroized
by rebooting the host
platform.

Operator Initiation
Rebooting the host
platform must be
performed under the
control of the
operator.

As specified in the SSP Zeroization Methods table, all SSPs/Keys used in the module are zeroized by
rebooting the host platform, indicated implicitly via the successful completion of the reboot. Rebooting the
host platform must be performed under the control of the operator.

Page 33 of 44

Size -
Strength
128 to 256
bits

Type -
Category
AES Key  External

Generated
By

Established
By
N/A

Used By

AES

≥ 112 bits  KDF

Secret

≥ 112 bits  Symmetri

c Key

External or
generated
per KAS-
SSC
KDF

N/A

SSH, TLS
v1.2, TLS
v1.3, KDA

N/A

AES

8-128

PBKDF
Password

External

N/A

PBKDF

≥ 112 bits  Symmetri

KDF

N/A

AES

c Key

112 to 256
bits

KDF Key  External

N/A

KBKDF

≥ 112 bits  Symmetri

KDF

N/A

AES

c Key

128 to 256
bits

Entropy

External

N/A

DRBG

9.4 SSPs

Name

Description

AES Key  Key used for

AES
operations
Secret used
for KDF
operations

Key resulting
from the
module’s
KDF
Password
used for
PBKDF
operations
Key resulting
from the
module’s
PBKDF
Key used for
key based
key
derivation
Key resulting
from the
module’s
KBKDF
Externally
generated
entropy used
to seed the
DRBG
Internal state
for DRBG

KDF
Secret

Derived
Key

PBKDF
Password

PBKDF
Derived
Key

KBKDF
Key

KBKDF
Derived
Key

Entropy
Input

DRBG
Seed

DRBG
Key

256 bits

DRBG
Seed

Internal state
for DRBG

256 bits

DRBG V

Internal state
for DRBG

256 bits

RSA
Signature
Public
Key

Key used for
RSA
Signature
Verification

≥ 1024 bits
Strength:
96 to 256
bits

DRBG
Internal
State
DRBG
Internal
State
RSA
Signature
Keypair

Page 34 of 44

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Generated
per SP800-
90Ar2
Generated
per SP800-
90Ar2
Generated
per SP800-
90Ar2
External or
generated
per FIPS
186-4

DRBG

DRBG

DRBG

RSA

Name

Description

RSA
Signature
Private
Key
ECDSA
Signature
Public
Key

Key used for
RSA
Signature
Generation
Key used for
ECDSA
Signature
Verification

ECDSA
Signature
Private
Key

Key used for
ECDSA
Signature
Generation

HMAC
Key

KMAC
Key

DH Public
Key

Key used for
HMAC
Operations
Key used for
KMAC
Operations
DH Public
Key

DH
Private
Key

DH
Shared
Secret

EC DH
Public
Key

EC DH
Private
Key

DH Private
Key

DH Shared
Secret

EC DH Public
Key

EC DH
Private Key

EC DH
Shared
Secret

EC DH
Shared
Secret

ECDSA
Signature
Keypair

Type -
Category
RSA
Signature
Keypair

Size -
Strength
≥ 2048 bits
Strength:
112 to 256
bits
192 to 521
bits
Strength:
96 to 256
bits
224 to 521
bits
Strength:
112 to 256
bits
≥ 112 bits  HMAC

ECDSA
Signature
Keypair

Established
By
N/A

Used By

RSA

N/A

ECDSA

N/A

ECDSA

Generated
By
External or
generated
per FIPS
186-4
External or
generated
per FIPS
186-4

External or
generated
per FIPS
186-4

External

N/A

HMAC

Key

≥ 112 bits  KMAC

External

N/A

KMAC

2048 –
8192 bits
Strength:
112 to 200
bits
2048 –
8192 bits
Strength:
112 to 200
bits
2048 –
8192 bits
Strength:
112 to 200
bits
224 - 521
bits
Strength:
112 to 256
bits
224 - 521
bits
Strength:
112 to 256
bits
112 to 256
bits

Key

DH
Keypair

DH
Keypair

DH
Shared
Secret

EC DH
Keypair

EC DH
Keypair

EC DH
Shared
Secret

Page 35 of 44

External or
generated
per SP800-
56A rev 3

External or
generated
per SP800-
56A rev 3

N/A

External or
generated
per SP800-
56A rev 3

External or
generated
per SP800-
56A rev 3

N/A

N/A

N/A

KAS-
FFC-SSC

KAS-
FFC-SSC

Key
agreement

SP800-
56A rev 3

N/A

N/A

KAS-
ECC-SSC

KAS-
ECC-SSC

Key
agreement

SP800-
56A rev 3

Name

Description

Key
Wrapping
Key

Key
Wrapping
Key

Table 20: SSP Table 1

Size -
Strength
128 to 256
bits

Type -
Category
Key
Wrapping
Key

Generated
By
External

Established
By
N/A

Used By

KTS

Name

AES Key

KDF Secret

Derived Key

PBKDF
Password

PBKDF
Derived Key

KBKDF Key

KBKDF
Derived Key

Input -
Output
Input:
Plaintext via
API
Output: N/A
Input:
Plaintext via
API
Output: N/A
Input: N/A
Output:
Plaintext via
API

Input:
Plaintext via
API
Output: N/A
Input: N/A
Output:
Plaintext via
API
Input:
Plaintext via
API
Output: N/A

Input: N/A
Output:
Plaintext

Entropy Input  N/A

DRBG Seed  N/A

DRBG Key

N/A

Storage

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Plaintext in
volatile
memory
Plaintext in
volatile
memory
Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Storage
Duration
Until zeroized  Reboot

Zeroisation

Related
SSPs
N/A

Until zeroized  Reboot

Until zeroized  Reboot

Until zeroized  Reboot

Until zeroized  Reboot

Until zeroized  Reboot

Until zeroized  Reboot

Used to
derive the
Derived Key

Derived from
KDF Secret

Used to
derive the
PBKDF
Derived Key

Derived from
PBKDF
Password

Used to
derive
KBKDF
Derived Key

Derived from
KBKDF Key

Until zeroized  Reboot

N/A

Until zeroized  Reboot

Until zeroized  Reboot

Generated
from the
Entropy Input
Generated
from the
DRBG Seed

Page 36 of 44

Name

DRBG V

Input -
Output
N/A

RSA
Signature
Public Key

RSA
Signature
Private Key

ECDSA
Signature
Public Key

ECDSA
Signature
Private Key

HMAC Key

KMAC Key

DH Public
Key

Plaintext via
API

Plaintext via
API

Plaintext via
API

Input:
Plaintext via
API
Output: N/A
Input:
Plaintext via
API
Output: N/A
Input:
Plaintext via
API
Output: N/A
Plaintext via
API

DH Private
Key

Plaintext via
API

DH Shared
Secret

Input: N/A
Output:
Plaintext via
API

EC DH Public
Key

Plaintext via
API

EC DH
Private Key

Plaintext via
API

EC DH
Shared
Secret

Input: N/A

Storage

Plaintext in
volatile
memory
Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Plaintext in
volatile
memory
Plaintext in
volatile
memory
Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Plaintext in
volatile
memory
Plaintext in
volatile
memory
Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Storage
Duration
Until zeroized  Reboot

Zeroisation

Until zeroized  Reboot

Until zeroized  Reboot

Until zeroized  Reboot

Until zeroized  Reboot

Related
SSPs
Generated
from the
DRBG Seed
Pair with RSA
Signature
Private Key

Pair with RSA
Signature
Public Key

Pair with
ECDSA
Signature
Private Key
Pair with
ECDSA
Signature
Public Key

Until zeroized  Reboot

N/A

Until zeroized  Reboot

N/A

Until zeroized  Reboot

Until zeroized  Reboot

Until zeroized  Reboot

Until zeroized  Reboot

Until zeroized  Reboot

Until zeroized  Reboot

Pair to DH
Private Key

Pair to DH
Public Key

DH Public
Key and
Private Key
Can be used
as the KDF
Secret
Pair to EC
DH Private
Key
Pair to EC
DH Public
Key
EC DH Public
Key and
Private Key

Page 37 of 44

Storage

Storage
Duration

Zeroisation

Related
SSPs
Can be used
as the KDF
Secret

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Until zeroized  Reboot

N/A

Name

Key
Wrapping
Key

Input -
Output
Output:
Plaintext via
API

Input:
Plaintext via
API
Output: N/A

Table 21: SSP Table 2

9.5 Transitions

No algorithm or security strength transitions are forecasted to occur over the lifetime of the
validation.

Page 38 of 44

10 Self-Tests

10.1 Pre-Operational Self-Tests

Test
Method
KAT

Algorithm  Test

Properties
HMAC-
SHA2-256
with a 256-
bit key

HMAC-
SHA2-256
software
Integrity
Test

Table 22: Pre-Operational Self-Tests

Test Type

Indicator

Details

Software
Integrity

HMAC
verification

Successful
initialization
of the
module

The module performs Pre-Operational Self-Tests (POSTs) at initialization. While the module is
executing the pre-operational self-tests, services are not available, and so input and output are
inhibited.

After the POST and CASTs are successfully concluded, the module automatically transitions to
the operational state. If the POST fails, the module enters the Error state.

Self-test results can be obtained using the show status service.

10.2 Conditional Self-Tests

Algorithm  Test

HMAC

Properties
HMAC-
SHA2-256

Test
Method
KAT

Test
Type
CAST

SHS

KAT

CAST

SHA3

KAT

CAST

AES GCM  AES-GCM-

KAT

CAST

256

Indicator  Details

HMAC
verification

SHA-512

SHA3-256

Encrypt,
Decrypt

Successf
ul
initializati
on of the
module

Successf
ul
initializati
on of the
module
Successf
ul
initializati
on of the
module
Successf
ul
initializati
on of the
module

Condition
s
During
module
initializatio
n prior to
executing
the
integrity
test
Module
Initializatio
n

Module
Initializatio
n

Module
Initializatio
n

Page 39 of 44

Algorithm  Test

AES ECB

Properties
AES-ECB-
128

Test
Method
KAT

Test
Type
CAST

RSA

2048, SHA-
256,
PKCS#1-
v1.5

KAT

CAST

ECDSA

P-224

KAT

CAST

TLS v1.3
KDF

TLS v1.2
KDF

KAT

CAST

KAT

CAST

PBKDF2

KAT

CAST

KBKDF

KAT

CAST

KDA HKDF

KAT

CAST

KDA
OneStep

DRBG

KAT

CAST

KAT

CAST

CTR_DRBG
: AES 128-
bit with DF

Indicator  Details

Encrypt,
Decrypt

Condition
s
Module
Initializatio
n

Successf
ul
initializati
on of the
module
Successf
ul
initializati
on of the
module
Successf
ul
initializati
on of the
module
Successf
ul
initializati
on of the
module
Successf
ul
initializati
on of the
module
Successf
ul
initializati
on of the
module
Successf
ul
initializati
on of the
module
Successf
ul
initializati
on of the
module
Successf
ul
initializati
on of the
module
Successf
ul
initializati

Sign, Verify  Module

Initializatio
n

Sign, Verify  Module

Initializatio
n

Module
Initializatio
n

Module
Initializatio
n

TLS v1.3
KDF

TLS 1.2
KDFs

Derivation of
the Master
Key

Module
Initializatio
n

Counter
mode using
HMAC-SHA-
256

Module
Initializatio
n

One-Step
and Two-
Step

Module
Initializatio
n

One-Step
and Two-
Step

Module
Initializatio
n

Instantiate,
Generate,
Reseed

Module
Initializatio
n

Page 40 of 44

Algorithm  Test

Properties

Test
Method

Test
Type

Indicator  Details

KAS-FFC-
SSC

p=2048,
q=256

KAT

CAST

KAS-ECC-
SSC

P-256

KAT

CAST

EC Keypair
Generation

Keypair
consistency
test

PCT

PCT

RSA
Keypair
Generation

Keypair
consistency
test

FFC
Keypair
Generation

Keypair
consistency
test

PCT

PCT

PCT

PCT

XTS Key
Check

Check to
confirm
Key1 ≠
Key2

Key
check

Critical
Function

Table 23: Conditional Self-Tests

on of the
module
Successf
ul
initializati
on of the
module
Successf
ul
initializati
on of the
module
Success
or failure
of service

Success
or failure
of service

Success
or failure
of service

Success
or failure
of service

dhEphem

Ephemeral
Unified

Sign / Verify
and SP 800-
56Ar3
Assurances
per Section
5.6.2
Sign / Verify
using
PKCS#1-
v1.5
SP 800-
56Ar3
Assurances
per Section
5.6.2
Per IG C.I

Condition
s

Module
Initializatio
n

Module
Initializatio
n

Keypair
generation

Keypair
generation

Keypair
generation

XTS key
entry

All Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Tests (CASTs) are run at initialization along with the POST.
This ensures they are run prior to the first operational use of the cryptographic algorithm.

As with the POST, once the CASTs are successfully concluded the module automatically
transitions to the operational state. If a CAST fails, the module enters the Error state.

If a conditional PCT or key check test fails, the service returns an error.

10.3 Periodic Self-Test Information

Not applicable

Page 41 of 44

10.4 Error States

Name

Error

Description

Conditions

The module’s
error state.

POST or CAST
failure

Recovery
Method
Reload the
module

Indicator

Status return
code

Table 24: Error States

The module has a single error state. While in this state, the module provides no cryptographic
functionality and inhibits all data output.

10.5 Operator Initiation of Self-Tests

The module’s POST and CASTs can be run anytime using the On-Demand Self-Test service by
calling OSSL_PROVIDER_self_test(), or by reloading the module.

Page 42 of 44

11 Life-Cycle Assurance

11.1 Installation, Initialization, and Startup Procedures

The Hewlett Packard Enterprise OpenSSL 3 Provider Module is one of the components within
Hewlett Packard Enterprise products. Full details about configuring Hewlett Packard Enterprise
products can be found in the product documentation.

The module is initialized by loading the shared library and executing the Initialize Module
service.

11.2 Administrator Guidance

Complete Crypto Officer documentation for the Hewlett Packard Enterprise OpenSSL 3 Provider
is provided in the module’s Administrator guidance documentation.

The module’s Show Version service can be invoked by obtaining OSSL_PROV_PARAM_NAME
and OSSL_PROV_PARAM_VERSION using OSSL_PROVIDER_get_params(). The module
will return the following values:

Name

Parameter
OSSL_PROV_PARAM_NAME

Value
Hewlett Packard Enterprise OpenSSL 3
Provider

Version  OSSL_PROV_PARAM_VERSION  3.1.4a

The module always operates in Approved mode. The Crypto Officer must ensure the following
runtime checks, which are enabled by default, are not disabled in the configuration file or using
any other method:

•  security-checks
•
tls1-prf-ems-check
•  hpe-hmac-min-key-len

11.3 Non-Administrator Guidance

Complete User documentation for the Hewlett Packard Enterprise OpenSSL 3 Provider is
provided in the module’s Administrator guidance documentation.

Keys derived from passwords (using PBKDF) shall only be used for storage applications.

11.6 End of Life

Details about end-of-life procedures for Hewlett Packard Enterprise products can be found in
the product documentation.

The module itself does not have any special end of life procedures. All SSPs can be zeroized by
restarting the host platform.

Page 43 of 44

12 Mitigation of Other Attacks

12.1 Attack List

The module mitigates against timing-based side-channel attacks using constant-time
implementations and blinding.

12.2 Mitigation Effectiveness

Constant-time Implementations protect cryptographic implementations in the Module against
timing analysis since such attacks exploit differences in execution time depending on the
cryptographic operation, and constant-time implementations ensure that the variations in
execution time cannot be traced back to the key, CSP or secret data.

Numeric Blinding protects the RSA and ECDSA algorithms from timing attacks. These
algorithms are vulnerable to such attacks since attackers can measure the time of signature
operations or RSA decryption. To mitigate this the Module generates a random blinding factor
which is provided as an input to the decryption/signature operation and is discarded once the
operation has completed and resulted in an output. This makes it difficult for attackers to
attempt timing attacks on such operations without the knowledge of the blinding factor and
therefore the execution time cannot be correlated to the RSA/ ECDSA key.

12.3 Guidance and Constraints

These mitigations are enabled by default.

Page 44 of 44

