        AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor
("Storm Peak")

version: bc0d0151FIPS001

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Document Version: 1.2

Last update: 2024-12-02

Prepared for:
Advanced Micro Devices (AMD)
2485 Augustine Drive
Santa Clara, CA 95054
www.amd.com

Prepared by:
atsec information security corporation
4516 Seton Center Parkway, Suite 250
Austin, TX 78759

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Table of Contents

1 General......................................................................................................5

1.1 Overview................................................................................................................................. 5

1.2 Security Levels........................................................................................................................ 5

2 Cryptographic Module Specification.............................................................6

2.1 Description.............................................................................................................................. 6

2.2 Tested and Vendor Affirmed Module Version and Identification...............................................7

2.3 Excluded Components.............................................................................................................8

2.4 Modes of Operation.................................................................................................................8

2.5 Algorithms............................................................................................................................... 8

2.6 Security Function Implementations......................................................................................... 9

2.7 Algorithm Specific Information................................................................................................. 9

2.8 RBG and Entropy..................................................................................................................... 9

2.9 Key Generation........................................................................................................................ 9

2.10 Key Establishment.................................................................................................................9

2.11 Industry Protocols.................................................................................................................. 9

3 Cryptographic Module Interfaces...............................................................10

3.1 Ports and Interfaces...............................................................................................................10

3.2 Trusted Channel Specification...............................................................................................10

3.3 Control Interface Not Inhibited............................................................................................... 10

4 Roles, Services, and Authentication...........................................................11

4.1 Authentication Methods......................................................................................................... 11

4.2 Roles...................................................................................................................................... 11

4.3 Approved Services................................................................................................................. 11

4.4 Non-Approved Services.......................................................................................................... 11

4.5 External Software/Firmware Loaded......................................................................................11

4.6 Bypass Actions and Status.....................................................................................................11

4.7 Cryptographic Output Actions and Status.............................................................................. 11

5 Software/Firmware Security......................................................................12

5.1 Integrity Techniques.............................................................................................................. 12

5.2 Initiate on Demand................................................................................................................12

6 Operational Environment...........................................................................13

6.1 Operational Environment Type and Requirements................................................................13

6.2 Configuration Settings and Restrictions................................................................................. 13

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

2 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

7 Physical Security......................................................................................14

7.1 Mechanisms and Actions Required........................................................................................14

8 Non-Invasive Security............................................................................... 15

9 Sensitive Security Parameters Management...............................................16

9.1 Storage Areas........................................................................................................................ 16

9.2 SSP Input-Output Methods..................................................................................................... 16

9.3 SSP Zeroization Methods....................................................................................................... 16

9.4 SSPs....................................................................................................................................... 16

9.5 Transitions............................................................................................................................. 17

10  Self-Tests.............................................................................................. 18

10.1 Pre-Operational Self-Tests...................................................................................................18

10.2 Conditional Self-Tests.......................................................................................................... 18

10.3 Periodic Self-Test Information.............................................................................................. 18

10.4 Error States.......................................................................................................................... 18

10.5 Operator Initiation of Self-Tests........................................................................................... 19

11 Life-Cycle Assurance...............................................................................20

11.1 Installation, Initialization and Startup Procedures................................................................20

11.2 Administrator Guidance.......................................................................................................22

11.3 Non-Administrator Guidance................................................................................................ 22

11.4 Design and Rules................................................................................................................. 22

11.5 Maintenance Requirements................................................................................................. 22

11.6 End of Life............................................................................................................................ 22

12 Mitigation of Other Attacks......................................................................23

Appendix A. Glossary and Abbreviations.......................................................24

Appendix B. References............................................................................... 25

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

3 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

List of Tables

Table 1 - Security Levels...................................................................................................................5

Table 2 - Hardware Tested Operating Environments........................................................................ 7

Table 3 - Executable Code Sets........................................................................................................8

Table 4 - Modes List and Description................................................................................................ 8

Table 5 - Approved Algorithms.......................................................................................................... 8

Table 6 - Ports and interfaces......................................................................................................... 10

Table 7 - Roles................................................................................................................................ 11

Table 8 - Approved Services........................................................................................................... 11

Table 9 - Storage Areas..................................................................................................................16

Table 10 - SSP Input-Output............................................................................................................ 16

Table 11 - SSP Zeroization Methods................................................................................................16

Table 12 - SSP Information First......................................................................................................16

Table 13 - SSP Information Second.................................................................................................16

Table 14 - Pre-Operational Self-Tests..............................................................................................18

Table 15 - Conditional Self-Tests..................................................................................................... 18

Table 16 - Error States.................................................................................................................... 18

List of Figures

Figure 1 - The AMD Ryzen Threadripper PRO 7000 Series (7975WX) SoC.........................................6

Figure 2 - Block Diagram..................................................................................................................7

Figure 3 - AFF Tool indicates that the module was not enabled......................................................21

Figure 4 - AFF Tool indicating that the module is enabled..............................................................21

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

4 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

1 General

1.1 Overview

This section is informative to the reader to reference cryptographic services and other services of
AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak") (the “module”) from Advanced Micro Devices
(AMD)  (the “vendor”). Only the components listed in Section  2.1  are subject to the FIPS 140-3
validation. The CMVP (Cryptographic Module Validation Program) makes no statement as to the
correct operation of the module or the security strengths of the generated keys (when supported)
if the specific operational environment is not listed on the validation certificate.

The vendor has provided the non-proprietary Security Policy of the cryptographic module, which
was   further   consolidated   into   this   document   by   atsec   information   security   together   with   other
vendor-supplied   documentation.   In   preparing   the   Security   Policy   document,   the   laboratory
formatted   the   vendor-supplied   documentation   for   consolidation   without   altering   the   technical
statements therein contained. The further refining of the Security Policy document was conducted
iteratively throughout the conformance testing, wherein the Security Policy was submitted to the
vendor, who would then edit, modify, and add technical contents. The vendor would also supply
additional documentation, which the laboratory formatted into the existing Security Policy, and
resubmitted to the vendor for their final editing.

1.2 Security Levels

Table 1 describes the individual security areas of FIPS 140-3, as well as the security levels of those
individual areas.

ISO/IEC 24759 Section
6 [Number Below]

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security Level

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

General

Cryptographic Module Specification

Cryptographic Module Interfaces

Roles, Services, and Authentication

Software/Firmware Security

Operational Environment

Physical Security

Non-invasive Security

Sensitive Security Parameter
Management

Self-tests

Life-cycle Assurance

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

Not Applicable

1

1

1

Mitigation of Other Attacks

Not Applicable

Overall Level

1

Table 1 - Security Levels

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

5 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

2 Cryptographic Module Specification

2.1 Description

Purpose and Use: The AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak") (hereafter referred to
as “the module”) supports the Ryzen PRO 7000 Series SoC (System on a Chip) by providing digital
signature verification of the key database during secure boot procedures.

Module Type: Hybrid Firmware

Module Embodiment: Single-chip standalone

Module Characteristics: N/A

Cryptographic   Boundary:  The   cryptographic   boundary   of   the   module   is   defined   as   the
fips_module binary,  which performs self-tests, provides the service indicator, and shows status
service,   as   well   as   the   hardware   implementations   of   RSA   and   SHA2-384   in   the   Cryptographic
CoProcessor (CCP), which are used to perform signature verification and verify the integrity of the
fips_module binary.

Tested Operational Environment’s Physical Perimeter (TOEPP):  The TOEPP of the module
is defined as the Ryzen PRO 7000 Series SoC in which the module operates.

Figure 1 - The AMD Ryzen Threadripper PRO 7000 Series (7975WX) SoC

Figure 2  shows a block diagram that represents the design of the module. In this diagram, the
physical perimeter of the operational environment, defined by the perimeter of the AMD Ryzen
PRO SoC (i.e., the enclosure of the SoC), is indicated by a purple dashed line. The cryptographic
boundary is represented by the components painted in orange blocks.

Components in white are only included in the diagram for informational purposes. They are not
included in the cryptographic boundary (and therefore not part of the module’s validation). For

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

6 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

example, the processor is responsible for executing the non-cryptographic code in the fips_module
firmware component.

2.2 Tested and Vendor Affirmed Module Version and Identification

Figure 2 - Block Diagram

Hardware Versions: bc0d0151FIPS001

Software Versions: N/A

Firmware Versions: bc0d0151FIPS001

Hardware Operating Environments: N/A

Software, Firmware, Hybrid Tested Operating Environments:

# Operating

System

Hardware
Platform

Processor

PAA/PAI Hypervisor
and Host OS

Versions

1 N/A

AMD Ryzen
PRO 7975WX
(100-
000000453)

AMD Ryzen
PRO 7975WX
(100-
000000453)

N/A

N/A

bc0d0151FIPS001

Table 2 - Hardware Tested Operating Environments

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

7 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Executable Code Sets:

Package or File Name

Software/ Firmware Version

Integrity Test Implemented

fips_module.bin

bc0d0151FIPS001

SHA2-384

Table 3 - Executable Code Sets

Vendor Affirmed Operating Environments: N/A

2.3 Excluded Components

There are no components within the cryptographic boundary that are excluded from the FIPS 140-
3 security requirements.

2.4 Modes of Operation

Modes List and Description:

Name

Description

Type

Status Indicator

Approved
mode

Whenever the module is
operational.

Approved

The module always operates in the
approved mode

Table 4 - Modes List and Description

The module implements only one mode of operation, the approved mode, in which the approved
services are available. No configuration is necessary for the module to operate and remain in the
approved mode.

After   passing   all   pre-operational   self-tests   and   cryptographic   algorithm   self-tests   executed   on
start-up, the module automatically transitions to the approved mode.

Mode change instructions and status indicators: N/A

Degraded Mode Description:  The module does not implement a degraded mode of operation.

2.5 Algorithms

Approved Algorithms:

CAVP
Cert

Algorithm and

Mode / Method Description / Key Size(s) /

Use / Function

Standard

Key Strengths

A4650 RSA [FIPS186-4] PSS with SHA2-384 4096

Digital signature
verification

A4650

SHA [FIPS180-4] SHA2-384

N/A

Message digest

Table 5 - Approved Algorithms

Vendor Affirmed Algorithms: The module does not implement vendor affirmed algorithms.

Non-Approved, Allowed Algorithms: The module does not implement non-approved algorithms
allowed in the approved mode of operation.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

8 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Non-Approved,   Allowed   Algorithms   with   No   Security   Claimed:  The   module   does   not
implement non-approved algorithms allowed in the approved mode of operation with no security
claimed.

Non-Approved,   Not   Allowed   Algorithms:  The   module   does   not   implement   non-approved
algorithms not allowed in the approved mode of operation.

2.6 Security Function Implementations

The module does not contain any approved KTS or KAS implementations.

2.7 Algorithm Specific Information

There is no algorithm specific information.

2.8 RBG and Entropy

The module does not implement any entropy sources or RBGs.

2.9 Key Generation

The module does not implement any SSP generation methods.

2.10 Key Establishment

The module does not implement any automated SSP establishment methods.

2.11 Industry Protocols

The module does not implement any industry protocols.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

9 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

3 Cryptographic Module Interfaces

3.1 Ports and Interfaces

Physical Port

Logical Interface

Data that passes over port/interface

SRAM

SRAM

SRAM

SRAM

Data Input

API input parameters for data.

Data Output

API output parameters for data.

Control Input

API function calls, API input parameters for control.

Status Output

API return codes, status values.

Power port

Power (input)
interface

Power port or pin in the single chip.

Table 6 - Ports and interfaces

Table   6  summarizes   the   cryptographic   module   interfaces.   The   logical   interfaces   are   logically
separated from each other by the API design. The power interface is physically separated from any
other interface.

3.2 Trusted Channel Specification

The module does not implement a trusted channel.

3.3 Control Interface Not Inhibited

The module does not implement a control output interface.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

10 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

4 Roles, Services, and Authentication

4.1 Authentication Methods

The module does not implement authentication.

4.2 Roles

Name

Type

Operator Type

Authentication Methods

Crypto Officer

Role

CO

N/A

Table 7 - Roles

The module supports the Crypto Officer role only. This sole role is implicitly and always assumed
by the operator of the module. No support is provided for multiple concurrent operators.

4.3 Approved Services

The   approved   service   indicator   can   be   retrieved   using   Microsoft   HSTI   and   through   the   UEFI
interactive   shell   tool.   As   the   module   only   offers   approved   services,   the   indicator   is   always   set
when the module is operational. This is shown by the “FIPS mode: on” output.

Name

Description

Indicator

Inputs

Outputs

Digital
Signature
Verification

Show
Version

Show
Status

Self-test

Verify a digital
signature

“FIPS
mode: on”

Message,
public key,
signature

Return the
module version
information

Return the
module status

Initiate on-
demand self-
tests by reset

None

N/A

None

None

N/A

N/A

Pass/fail

Module
version

Module
status

Pass/fail

Security
Functions

Roles

SSP
Access

RSA PSS
using SHA2-
384

CO

RSA public
key: W, E

N/A

N/A

SHA2-384
RSA PSS

CO

N/A

CO

CO

N/A

N/A

Zeroization

Zeroize all SSPs

None

Any SSP

N/A

N/A

CO

All SSPs: Z

Table 8 - Approved Services

4.4 Non-Approved Services

There are no non-approved services.

4.5 External Software/Firmware Loaded

The module does not load external software or firmware.

4.6 Bypass Actions and Status

The module does not implement a bypass capability.

4.7 Cryptographic Output Actions and Status

The module does not implement a self-initiated cryptographic output capability.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

11 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

5 Software/Firmware Security

5.1 Integrity Techniques

The   integrity   of   the   firmware   component   of   the   module   (“fips_module.bin”)   is   verified   by
comparing a SHA2-384 digest value calculated at run time with the SHA2-384 digest value stored
in the module that was computed at build time.

5.2 Initiate on Demand

The integrity test is performed as part of the pre-operational self-tests, which are executed when
the   module   is   initialized.   The   integrity   tests   can   be   invoked   on   demand   by   powering   off   and
subsequently re-initializing the module or SoC, which will perform (among others) the firmware
integrity test.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

12 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

6 Operational Environment

6.1 Operational Environment Type and Requirements

Type of Operating Environment: Non-modifiable: no changes are possible to module firmware
code, nor the bootloader firmware code that interacts with the module.

How Requirements are Satisfied: The operational environment provides context separation for
the   memory   and   registers   utilized   by   the   module.   When   these   components   are   used   by   the
module, no other process or sub-component can access the information concurrently.

6.2 Configuration Settings and Restrictions

The module shall be installed as stated in Section 11.

After installation, no configuration of the operational environment is required for the module to
operate in an approved mode. Therefore, there are no rules, settings, or restrictions to the
configuration of the operational environment.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

13 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

7 Physical Security

7.1 Mechanisms and Actions Required

The embodiment of the module is a single chip consisting of production-grade components. The
coating is a standard sealing coat applied over the single chip.

The module provides no additional physical security techniques.

No actions are required to maintain the physical security of the module.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

14 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

8 Non-Invasive Security

This module does not implement any non-invasive security mechanism and therefore this section
is not applicable.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

15 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

9 Sensitive Security Parameters Management

9.1 Storage Areas

Storage Area Name

Description

Persistence Type

SRAM

Temporary storage for SSPs used by the
module as part of service execution

Dynamic

Table 9 - Storage Areas

The   module   does   not   perform   persistent   storage   of   SSPs;   SSPs   in   use   by   the   module   exist   in
volatile memory only. SSPs are provided to the module by the calling process and are destroyed
when released by the respective functions.

9.2 SSP Input-Output Methods

Name

From

To

Format
Type

Distribution
Type

Entry Type

API input
parameters

Operator residing
on TOEPP

Cryptographic
Module
Table 10 - SSP Input-Output

Plaintext

Manual

Electronic

9.3 SSP Zeroization Methods

Zeroization Method

Description

Rationale

Operator Initiation

Remove power from
the SoC

De-allocates the
volatile memory
used to store
SSPs

Volatile memory used by
the module is overwritten
within nanoseconds when
power is removed

Table 11 - SSP Zeroization Methods

By removing power

All data output is inhibited during zeroization.

9.4 SSPs

Name

Description

Size

Strength

Type

Generated
By

Established
By

RSA public
key

Public key used for
RSA signature
verification

Name Used By

Inputs /
Outputs

4096 bits

150 bits

Public key

N/A

N/A

Table 12 - SSP Information First

Storage Temporary

Zeroization Category Related

RSA
public
key

Digital
Signature
Verification

API input
parameters

No output

RAM

Storage
Duration

While the
module is
operational

Remove power
from the SoC

PSP

SSPs

None

Table 13 - SSP Information Second

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

16 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

9.5 Transitions

The   RSA   algorithm   as   implemented   by   the   module   conforms   to   FIPS   186-4,   which   has   been
superseded by FIPS 186-5. FIPS 186-4 will be withdrawn on February 3, 2024.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

17 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

10  Self-Tests

10.1 Pre-Operational Self-Tests

Algorithm Implementation

Test
Properties

Test
Method

Test
Type

Indicator

Details

SHA2-384

Default

N/A

Message
digest

Firmware
integrity

Module
becomes
operational

Performed on
fips_module.bin

Table 14 - Pre-Operational Self-Tests

The   pre-operational   firmware   integrity   test   is   performed   automatically   when   the   module   is
powered   on   before   the   module   transitions   into   the   operational   state.   While   the   module   is
executing the self-test, services are not available, and data output (via the data output interface)
is inhibited until the tests are successfully completed. The module transitions to the operational
state only after the pre-operational self-test passed successfully.

10.2 Conditional Self-Tests

Algorithm Implemen

tation

Test
Properties

Test
Method

Test
Type

Indicator

Details

Condition

SHA2-384

Default

RSA

Default

32-bit
message

PSS using
4096-bit key
SHA2-384

KAT

KAT

CAST

CAST

Module is
operational

Message
digest

Module
initialization

Signature
verification

Module
initialization

Table 15 - Conditional Self-Tests

The module performs self-tests on all approved cryptographic algorithms as part of the approved
services supported in the approved mode of operation, using the tests shown in Table 15. These
self-tests are performed automatically before the firmware test. Services are not available, and
data output (via the data output interface) is inhibited during the self-tests. If any of these tests
fails, the module transitions to the error state.

10.3 Periodic Self-Test Information

The module does not implement any periodic self-tests.

10.4 Error States

Name

Description

Conditions

Recovery Method

Indicator

Error State

The module
immediately
stops executing

SHA2-384 self-test
error

Reset of the
module

Error code AA0000FB

RSA self-test error

Error code AA0000FC

Integrity test error

Error code AA0000FD

Table 16 - Error States

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

18 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

In the error state, the output interface is inhibited, and the module accepts no more inputs or
requests (as the module is no longer running). The error code is output through the FW status
register, which explains the error that has occurred.

10.5 Operator Initiation of Self-Tests

All self-tests can be invoked on demand by unloading and subsequently re-initializing the module.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

19 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

11 Life-Cycle Assurance

11.1 Installation, Initialization and Startup Procedures

The procedures herein described are directed at OEMs for producing and configuring their BIOS so
that the FIPS module is properly enabled to operate as the validated module in conformance with
the rules in this Security Policy document.

Once properly installed and enabled, no configuration is necessary for the module to operate and
remain in the approved mode, as it is the only mode of operation of the module.

To enable the FIPS capability

1. Reserve   16KiB   at   least   for   AMD   Secure   Processor   level   1   directory,   as   the   FIPS   module

requires additional 8KiB of ROM space for the AMD Secure Processor L1 Bootloader.

2. The Platform BIOS must include the file with “_FIPS” postfix in the file name as AMD Secure
Processor entry 0x1. For example, the file PspBootLoader_stage1_prod_AB_RN_FIPS.sbin has
“_FIPS” postfix in the file name. This file is thus a FIPS capable AMD Secure Processor boot
loader. Conversely, the file PspBootLoader_stage1_prod_AB_RN.sbin does not have “_FIPS”
postfix in  the  file  name,  making this file a non-FIPS capable AMD Secure Processor boot
loader.

3. Set BIT 32 of AMD Secure Processor soft fuse chain (AMD Secure Processor entry 0xB) to

enable FIPS capability.

a. The   BIT32   in   AMD   Secure   Processor   entry   0xB   is   defined   as   FIPS   capability
enablement. If 0, the FIPS capability is OFF; if 1, the FIPS capability is ON (i.e., the
module is properly installed as the validated module described in this document).

To verify whether FIPS capability is on

1. Boot the system into UEFI shell with secure boot disabled.

2. Use the UEFI shell version of the AFF Tool version 0.3 and beyond. This tool is provided by
the vendor. Run the AFF Tool with the command: afftool –fips from the interactive UEFI
shell provided by the BIOS.

a.

b.

If it shows “FIPS mode: on”, this is the FIPS capable module installed.

If it shows “FIPS mode: off”, the module (described in this document) is disabled.

The screenshot in  Figure 2  shows the usage of the AFF Tool. The output indicates that the FIPS
module   is   disabled.   In   this   condition,   the   module   does   not   operate   in   conformance   with   this
Security Policy document.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

20 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Figure 3 - AFF Tool indicates that the module was not enabled.

The screenshot in Figure 4 again shows the usage of the AFF Tool. The output demonstrates that
the FIPS module is enabled and thus will operate as the FIPS validated module according to the
rules in this Security Policy document.

Figure 4 - AFF Tool indicating that the module is enabled.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

21 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

11.2 Administrator Guidance

All   the   functions,   ports   and   logical   interfaces   described   in   this   document   are   available   to   the
Crypto Officer. The module only provides approved functions, and as such there are no special
procedures to administer the approved mode of operation.

11.3 Non-Administrator Guidance

The module implements only the Crypto Officer. There are no requirements for non-administrator
operators.

11.4 Design and Rules

The bootloader (which acts as the operator of the module) initializes the fips_module component
by   loading   it   into   memory   upon   power-on.   After   the   pre-operational   self-tests   are   successfully
concluded, the module automatically transitions to the operational state.

In the operational state, the module automatically performs the signature verification of the key
database using the RSA signature verification service, which is the sole service provided by the
module. The key database, RSA public key, and signature are provided as input by the operator of
the module (the bootloader). After the successful signature verification of the key database, the
module unloads itself from memory, ceasing its operation.

All the procedures described above are conducted without any human assistance. To perform the
procedures again, the module must be reset, which will trigger a new boot.

11.5 Maintenance Requirements

There are no maintenance requirements.

11.6 End of Life

The process for performing “End of Life” occurs at the chronological point of 10 years starting
from manufacturing date of the module.

As stated in Section 9.1, the module does not possess persistent storage of SSPs. The SSP values
only   exists   in   volatile   memory   and   those   values   vanish   when   the   module   is   powered   off.   The
procedure for secure sanitization of the module at the end of life is simply to power it off, which is
the action of zeroization of the SSPs (Section 9.3). As a result of this sanitization via power-off, the
SSPs   are   removed   from   the   module,   so   that   the   module   may   either   be   distributed   to   other
operators or disposed.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

22 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

12 Mitigation of Other Attacks

The module does not offer mitigation of other attacks and therefore this section is not applicable.

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

23 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Appendix A. Glossary and Abbreviations

AES

Advanced Encryption Standard

CAVP

Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program

CMVP

Cryptographic Module Validation Program

DRBG

Deterministic Random Bit Generator

FIPS

KAT

Federal Information Processing Standards

Known Answer Test

NIST

National Institute of Science and Technology

OS

PAA

PSP

PSS

RSA

SHA

SHS

Operating System

Processor Algorithm Acceleration

Public Security Parameter

Probabilistic Signature Scheme

Rivest, Shamir, Addleman

Secure Hash Algorithm

Secure Hash Standard

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

24 of 25

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Storm Peak")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Appendix B. References

FIPS 140-3

FIPS PUB 140-3 - Security Requirements For Cryptographic Modules

March 2019

https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.140-3.pdf

FIPS 140-3 IG

Implementation Guidance for FIPS PUB 140-3 and the Cryptographic Module Validation
Program

https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/fips-140-3-ig-announcements

FIPS 180-4

Secure Hash Standard (SHS)

March 2012

https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.180-4.pdf

FIPS 186-4

Digital Signature Standard (DSS)

July 2013

https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.186-4.pdf

FIPS 186-5

Digital Signature Standard (DSS)

February 2023

https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.186-5.pdf

SP 800-140Br1

CMVP Security Policy Requirements

November 2023

https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-140Br1.pdf

© 2023 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

25 of 25

