Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy
Microsoft Corporation
FIPS 140-3 Security Policy
(Non-Proprietary)
Pluton™ Security Processor ROM
Ryzen 7 Pro 6850H with Radeon Graphics
Rembrandt B1 = 0x8262_0B00
Prepared By Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052-6399
Document Version Number 1.1
Updated On November 1, 2024
© 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved Page 1 of 23
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy
COPYRIGHT AND DISCLAIMER
The information contained in this document represents the current view of Microsoft Corporation on
the issues discussed as of the date of publication. Because Microsoft must respond to changing
market conditions, it should not be interpreted to be a commitment on the part of Microsoft, and
Microsoft cannot guarantee the accuracy of any information presented after the date of publication.
This document is for informational purposes only. MICROSOFT MAKES NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, AS TO THE INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT.
Complying with all applicable copyright laws is the responsibility of the user. This work is licensed
under the Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivs-NonCommercial VLicense (which allows
redistribution of the work). To view a copy of this license, visithttp://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-
nd-nc/1.0/ or send a letter to Creative Commons, 559 Nathan Abbott Way, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.
Microsoft may have patents, patent applications, trademarks, copyrights, or other intellectual property
rights covering subject matter in this document. Except as expressly provided in any written license
agreement from Microsoft, the furnishing of this document does not give you any license to these
patents, trademarks, copyrights, or other intellectual property.
The example companies, organizations, products, people and events depicted herein are fictitious. No
association with any real company, organization, product, person or event is intended or should be
inferred.
© 2024 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.
Microsoft, Pluton security processor, Azure, Active Directory, Visual Basic, Visual Studio, Windows, the
Windows logo, Windows NT, and Windows Server are either registered trademarks or trademarks of
Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
The names of actual companies and products mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their
respective owners.
© 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved Page 2 of 23
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy
Contents
Version history ........................................................................................................................................................................... 4
1. General ...................................................................................................................................................................................... 5
1.1. Security Level ............................................................................................................................................................ 5
2. Cryptographic Module Specification ............................................................................................................................. 6
2.1. Module Description ................................................................................................................................................ 6
2.2. Modes of Operation ............................................................................................................................................... 6
2.3. Operational Environments and Configurations ........................................................................................... 6
2.4. Algorithms and Security Functions ................................................................................................................... 8
2.5. Cryptographic Boundaries ................................................................................................................................... 9
2.6. Design and Rules of Operation ........................................................................................................................ 10
3. Cryptographic Module Interfaces ................................................................................................................................. 11
4. Roles, Services, and Authentication .............................................................................................................................. 11
5. Software/Firmware Security ............................................................................................................................................ 16
6. Operational Environment ................................................................................................................................................. 16
7. Physical Security .................................................................................................................................................................. 16
8. Non-Invasive Security ........................................................................................................................................................ 17
9. Sensitive Security Parameters Management ............................................................................................................. 18
10. Self-Tests ...................................................................................................................................................................... 19
10.1. Pre-Operational Self-Tests.............................................................................................................................. 19
10.2. Conditional Self-Tests ...................................................................................................................................... 19
10.3. Error States ........................................................................................................................................................... 21
11. Life-Cycle Assurance ................................................................................................................................................ 23
© 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved Page 3 of 23
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

| Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy  |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
11.1.  Crypto Officer Guidance ................................................................................................................................. 23
11.2.  User Guidance..................................................................................................................................................... 23
12.  Mitigation of Other Attacks .................................................................................................................................. 23

Version history

| Document Version  | Date  | Description  |     |     |     |
| ----------------- | ----- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
1.0  May 13, 2022  Draft submitted to CMVP for a full validation.
1.1  November 1, 2024  Updated in response to CMVP feedback.

|                                          |     |     |     |     |               |
| ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------- |
| © 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved    |     |     |     |     | Page 4 of 23  |
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

| Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy  |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
1. General
Microsoft’s Pluton™ Security Processor Read-Only Memory (ROM) module (the “module”, or “Pluton
ROM”) is a sub-chip cryptographic subsystem in the AMD Ryzen 6000 Series System on a Chip (SOC).
The module is a single chip hardware module that implements FIPS 140-3 approved cryptographic
algorithms.
This document is the FIPS 140-3 Security Policy for the module. It contains a specification of the rules
under which the module must operate and describes how the module meets security requirements as
specified in ISO/IEC 19790:2012 and the Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 140-3
(FIPS PUB 140-3) for a Security Level 2 module, when achieving its primary functional objective. This
document is intended for the FIPS 140-3 testing lab, the Cryptographic Module Validation Program
(CMVP), and administrators and users of the module.
1.1. Security Level
The overall security level that this module is validated at is Level 2. The following table lists the
security levels of individual areas for this validation, as required by the CMVP Security Policy
Requirements (NIST SP 800-140B), ISO/IEC 19790 Annex B, and ISO/IEC 24759 section 6.14.
ISO/IEC 24759 Section 6.  FIPS 140-3 Section Title  Security Level
[Number Below]
| 1   | General                                  |     |     |     | Level 2  |     |
| --- | ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | -------- | --- |
| 2   | Cryptographic module specification       |     |     |     | Level 2  |     |
| 3   | Cryptographic module interfaces          |     |     |     | Level 2  |     |
| 4   | Roles, services, and authentication      |     |     |     | Level 2  |     |
| 5   | Software/Firmware security               |     |     |     | Level 2  |     |
| 6   | Operational environment                  |     |     |     | N/A      |     |
| 7   | Physical security                        |     |     |     | Level 2  |     |
| 8   | Non-invasive security                    |     |     |     | N/A      |     |
| 9   | Sensitive security parameter management  |     |     |     | Level 2  |     |
| 10  | Self-tests                               |     |     |     | Level 2  |     |
| 11  | Life-cycle assurance                     |     |     |     | Level 2  |     |
| 12  | Mitigation of other attacks              |     |     |     | N/A      |     |
Table 1: Security Levels
| © 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved    |     |     |     |     |     | Page 5 of 23  |
| ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------- |
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy
2. Cryptographic Module Specification
2.1. Module Description
The primary functional objective of the Pluton™ Security Processor ROM module is to validate
digitally signed files before they are imported into the Pluton Security Processor. The module and the
Pluton Security Processor are embedded security subsystems within AMD’s SOC silicon die. While the
module incorporates other hardware elements, the following on-die design blocks are relevant to the
primary functional objective of the module.
• The ARM Cortex R4 processor, which is configured to boot from the Pluton image at a specific
address in the ROM.
• The Pluton ROM image, which is compiled by its developer before the Graphic Data System
(GDS) Integrated Circuits (IC) layout of the SOC is finalized and fabricated.
• The Pluton ROM, to which the compiled Pluton image is written as part of the process to
complete the SOC GDS IC layout.
• Pluton RAM, which provides runtime temporary stack or data spaces exclusive to the R4
processor when the R4 processor is executing the Pluton image.
• The Pluton AES engine, which is a hardware implementation of the AES block cipher for
encryption and decryption of data.
• The Pluton SHA engine, which is a hardware implementation for performing hashing
operations in authenticating and checking the integrity of blocks of data.
• The Pluton Public Key Acceleration (PKA) engine, which provides hardware acceleration to
perform prime finite field arithmetic functions autonomously to support ECC public key
operations.
2.2. Modes of Operation
The mode in which the module operates is implicitly the approved mode. The module has only an
approved mode and, therefore, all services are approved services.
2.3. Operational Environments and Configurations
The module resides in all AMD Ryzen 6000 Series SOCs, regardless of SKU or model. This is a non-
modifiable operational environment. The Ryzen 6000 Series includes multiple SKUs, e.g. Ryzen 3,
© 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved Page 6 of 23
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

| Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy  |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Ryzen 5, Ryzen 7, and Ryzen 9, among others. The specific SKU and model used for testing in this
validation is identified in the table below. Apart from the Pluton ROM image, the rest of the module is
comprised of integrated circuits fabricated on silicon dies as hardware components.
Model  Hardware Part # and  Firmware Version  Distinguishing
|                 | Version            |     |             |     | Features     |     |
| --------------- | ------------------ | --- | ----------- | --- | ------------ | --- |
| AMD Ryzen 6000  | Model Ryzen 7 Pro  |     | Rembrandt   |     | CPUID F.4.1  |     |
Series SOC  6850H with Radeon  B1 = 0x8262_0B00  Extended CPUID 19.44
Graphics
Table 2: Cryptographic Module Tested Configuration
The following photograph shows the specific AMD Ryzen 6000 Series, Model 7 Pro 6850H with
Radeon Graphics.

Figure 1: Processor Photograph
|                                          |     |     |     |     |     |               |
| ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------- |
| © 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved    |     |     |     |     |     | Page 7 of 23  |
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

| Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy  |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
2.4.  Algorithms and Security Functions
The following tables present the cryptographic algorithms and security functions used in the module
in its single mode of operation. Table 3 lists the FIPS 140-3 approved algorithms used in the module,
and tables 4-5 list the non-approved algorithms that may be used in certain modes of operation in
the module.
CAVP Certificate  Algorithm and  Mode / Method  Description /  Use / Function
| #   | Standard  |     | Key Size(s) / Key  |     |     |
| --- | --------- | --- | ------------------ | --- | --- |
Strength(s)
| A2348  | ECDSA SigVer  | Signature     | P-384 curve with  |     | Signature     |
| ------ | ------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | --- | ------------- |
|        | (FIPS 186-4)  | Verification  | SHA2-256.         |     | Verification  |
A2348  SHA2-256 (FIPS  SHA2-256  Message length:  Secure Hashing
|     | 180-4)  |     | 0-51200,  |     |     |
| --- | ------- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
increment 8.
Table 3: Approved Algorithms

| Algorithm                   |     | Caveat  |     | Use / Function  |     |
| --------------------------- | --- | ------- | --- | --------------- | --- |
| N/A (The module implements  |     |         |     |                 |     |
only approved algorithms.)
Table 4: Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation

| Algorithm                   |     | Caveat  |     | Use / Function  |     |
| --------------------------- | --- | ------- | --- | --------------- | --- |
| N/A (The module implements  |     |         |     |                 |     |
only approved algorithms.)
Table 5: Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security Claimed
|                                          |     |     |     |     |               |
| ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------- |
| © 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved    |     |     |     |     | Page 8 of 23  |
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

| Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy  |     |                 |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --- | --------------- | --- | --- |
| Algorithm / Function                             |     | Use / Function  |     |     |
| N/A (The module implements only approved         |     |                 |     |     |
algorithms.)
Table 6: Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation
2.5.  Cryptographic Boundaries
The module’s physical boundary per IG 2.3.B is the physical perimeter of the AMD SOC. Consequently,
the module qualifies as a single-chip cryptographic module. As a Sub-Chip Cryptographic Subsystem,
the cryptographic boundary consists of the circuitry cores of sub-chip cryptographic subsystem and
the Hardware Module Interface (HMI) interfaces documented in Section 3 of this document. Figure 2
visualizes the cryptographic boundary of the module, and Figure 3 provides a photograph of the
physical boundary of the SOC.

Figure 2: Cryptographic Boundary (HMI)

| © 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved    |     |     |     | Page 9 of 23  |
| ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------- |
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy
Figure 3: Photograph of the SOC with Red Overlay Identifying the Physical Boundary
The module’s primary functional objective is to validate the SHA2-256 ECDSA P-384 signature of a
firmware application. If the signature is valid, the firmware application may be imported and loaded
into the Pluton RAM for the R4 processor to execute. (Note that the module itself contains no
firmware per CMVP definitions.) As a result, firmware applications remain outside of the FIPS
cryptographic boundary. No components within the boundary are excluded from the security
requirements. All information processed by the component is strictly for internal use of the module
towards its security function and does not impact the secure operation of the module or the
correctness of control, status, or data outputs. The inclusion of specific firmware applications would
be the subject of another validation under CMVP which extends the module’s current functionality
and CMVP validation assessment verdicts.
2.6. Design and Rules of Operation
The module is a sub-chip embedded in the AMD Ryzen 6000 Series SOC, which is a single-chip
standalone device. The primary functional objective of the hardware module is to validate digitally
signed files before they are imported into the module. The module is an embedded security
subsystem within AMD’s SOC. No user installation or maintenance is required. The FIPS 140-3
functional requirements are always invoked when the validated hardware version listed is used. The
other sections of this document provide additional details on the design of the module and rules for
its operation.
© 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved Page 10 of 23
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

| Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy  |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
3. Cryptographic Module Interfaces
As indicated in the table below, all status and control ports are accessed through the Pluton registers
and the API command handlers implemented in the Pluton ROM image. For data input, direct access
to memory through the address spaces maintained by the Pluton registers and the API command
handlers implemented in the Pluton ROM image are used. This direct access to memory, the Pluton
registers, and API commands defines the FIPS interfaces across the module’s cryptographic boundary.
Error statuses available through these interfaces do not reveal any sensitive materials to the interface
initiators.
Physical Port  Logical  Data that Passes over the Port / Interface
Interface
Direct access of memory,  Data Input  Hard-coded ECDSA Signature (PSP) used for
| registers  |     |     | verification of firmware image, measurements.  |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
Registers   Control Input  Platform Configuration Register (PCR)
numbers.
| Registers   |     | Status Output  | Return and error codes.  |     |     |
| ----------- | --- | -------------- | ------------------------ | --- | --- |
Table 7: Ports and Interfaces
4. Roles, Services, and Authentication
The module supports a single role, Crypto Officer, which may use any of the module’s services. The
Crypto Officer role is implicitly assumed by the party accessing services implemented by the Module.
There is no non-Crypto Officer role in approved mode. The module does not support cryptographic
bypass.
The following table identifies all services offered in each role, with corresponding input and output.
| Role  | Service  |     | Input  | Output  |     |
| ----- | -------- | --- | ------ | ------- | --- |
Crypto  Show Status  Automatically executed  Status output across the
| Officer  |     |     | by the module.  | module’s Status Output  |     |
| -------- | --- | --- | --------------- | ----------------------- | --- |
logical interface.
| © 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved    |     |     |     |     | Page 11 of 23  |
| ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------------- |
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

| Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy  |          |        |     |         |     |
| ------------------------------------------------ | -------- | ------ | --- | ------- | --- |
| Role                                             | Service  | Input  |     | Output  |     |
Crypto  Perform Self-Tests   Automatically executed  Implicit in Module
Officer  by the module after every  availability: if the Module
|     |     | power on or reset.  |     | is available, the self-tests  |     |
| --- | --- | ------------------- | --- | ----------------------------- | --- |
have passed; if the self-
tests fail, the Module
resets.
Crypto  Load Firmware   Executed when the “load  Firmware application
| Officer  |     | firmware” command is  |     | ECDSA signature is  |     |
| -------- | --- | --------------------- | --- | ------------------- | --- |
|          |     | received; firmware    |     | validated.          |     |
address and size is
passed in.
Crypto  Decommission  Executed when the  Permanently changes the
| Officer  |     | “disable Pluton”      |     | module state to end of  |     |
| -------- | --- | --------------------- | --- | ----------------------- | --- |
|          |     | command is received.  |     | life.                   |     |
Crypto  PCR3 Extend   Executed when the “PCR3  Extends PCR number 3
| Officer  |     | extend” command is  |     | with passed-in data.  |     |
| -------- | --- | ------------------- | --- | --------------------- | --- |
received, with value and
software PCR number is
passed in.
Crypto  All PCR Extend   Executed when the “all  Extends all PCRs with a
| Officer  |     | PCR extend” command is  |     | hard-coded, fixed value.  |     |
| -------- | --- | ----------------------- | --- | ------------------------- | --- |
received.
Crypto  Show Module’s Versioning  Implicit by the AMD SOC  CPUID indicated in Table
| Officer  | Information  | the module resides  |     | 2.  |     |
| -------- | ------------ | ------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
within.
Table 8: Roles, Service Commands, Input, and Output
Details on authentication methods are N/A as the module does not provide authentication of users
and is not required to as the module services that access approved security functions fall into the
categories of FIPS 180-4 hash algorithms and FIPS 186-4 digital signature verification, per IG 4.1.A.
| © 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved    |     |     |     |     | Page 12 of 23  |
| ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------------- |
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

| Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
The following table identifies the approved services of the module. The module does not include a zeroization service because the
single SSP accessed by the module (ECDSA public key used for firmware signature verification) is a Public Security Parameter (PSP) that
is hardcoded in the ROM code. This PSP is immutable and thus is considered protected.
Service  Description  Approved Security  Keys  Role(s)  Access Rights  Indicator
|     |     | Function(s)  |     | and/or  |     | to Keys or  |     |
| --- | --- | ------------ | --- | ------- | --- | ----------- | --- |
|     |     |              |     | SSPs    |     | SSPs        |     |
Show Status  Shows module  N/A  None  Crypto  N/A  Implicit in SOC availability.
|     | status.  |     |     |     | Officer  |     | An error in module will  |
| --- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | -------- | --- | ------------------------ |
result in the SOC failing to
boot.
Perform Self- Performs module  SHA2-256 (FIPS 180-4)  None   Crypto  N/A   Implicit in module
Tests   self-tests.  and ECDSA SigVer  Officer  availability. If the SHA2
|     |     | (FIPS 186-4)  |     |     |     |     | self-test fails, the module  |
| --- | --- | ------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------- |
halts and no
cryptographic function
may be performed. For
ECDSA, a failure status
returned to the platform
processor of the AMD
SOC.
© 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved              Page 13 of 23
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

| Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Service  Description  Approved Security  Keys  Role(s)  Access Rights  Indicator
|     |     | Function(s)  |     | and/or  |     | to Keys or  |     |
| --- | --- | ------------ | --- | ------- | --- | ----------- | --- |
|     |     |              |     | SSPs    |     | SSPs        |     |
Load Firmware  Validates a firmware  ECDSA SigVer (FIPS  ECDSA  Crypto  R, E  LoadRuntime succeeds
application ECDSA  186-4)  public key  Officer  and the module generates
|     | signature.  |     |     |     |     |     | a postcode that digital  |
| --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------------ |

signature validation
succeeded.
Decommission   Permanently changes  N/A  None  Crypto  N/A  HSP state is changed and
|     | the module state for  |     |     |     | Officer  |     | will reject any commands  |
| --- | --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | -------- | --- | ------------------------- |
|     | decommissioning.      |     |     |     |          |     | like LoadRuntime or       |
PcrExtend.
PCR3 Extend  Extends the Platform  SHA2-256 (FIPS 180-4)  None  Crypto  N/A  PCR3 extended with
|     | Configuration  |     |     |     | Officer  |     | passed-in data.   |
| --- | -------------- | --- | --- | --- | -------- | --- | ----------------- |
Register (PCR)
number 3 with
passed-in data.
All PCR Extend  Extends all PCRs with  SHA2-256 (FIPS 180-4)  None  Crypto  N/A  PCR3 extended with hard-
|     | a hard-coded, fixed  |     |     |     | Officer  |     | coded fixed value.  |
| --- | -------------------- | --- | --- | --- | -------- | --- | ------------------- |
value.
© 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved              Page 14 of 23
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

| Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Service  Description  Approved Security  Keys  Role(s)  Access Rights  Indicator
|     |     | Function(s)  |     | and/or  |     | to Keys or  |     |
| --- | --- | ------------ | --- | ------- | --- | ----------- | --- |
|     |     |              |     | SSPs    |     | SSPs        |     |
Show Module’s  Show module’s  N/A  None  Crypto  N/A  CPUID matching those
| Versioning   | versioning    |     |     |     | Officer  |     | indicated in Table 2.  |
| ------------ | ------------- | --- | --- | --- | -------- | --- | ---------------------- |
| Information  | information.  |     |     |     |          |     |                        |
Table 9: Approved Services
G = Generate: The module generates or derives the SSP.
R = Read: The SSP is read from the module (e.g. the SSP is output).
W = Write: The SSP is updated, imported, or written to the module.
E = Execute: The module uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation.
Z = Zeroise: The module zeroises the SSP.
The module implements only approved services.
© 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved              Page 15 of 23
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy
5. Software/Firmware Security
The module’s executable code is stored in non-reconfigurable memory on the SOC, as defined by FIPS
140-3 IG 5.A. The SOC non-reconfigurable memory will not change or degrade for a minimum of 10
years, guaranteeing firmware security. This design requires no integrity testing.
As a sub-chip embedded in the AMD SOC, the module is expected to last the lifetime of the SOC. The
non-reconfigurable memory of the SOC should not degrade for at least 10 years. The module and
SOC are determined to be end-of-life at the discretion of the user within this period. At end-of-life,
the user should discontinue use of the SOC. As the module does not generate, establish, or import
any CSPs, no sanitization process is required.
6. Operational Environment
The Operational Environment requirements do not apply, as the module’s operational environment is
non-modifiable and the physical security level claimed is Level 2. Apart from the Pluton ROM image,
the rest of the module is comprised of integrated circuits fabricated on silicon dies as hardware
components. The Pluton ROM image is non-modifiable as it is written to the SOC as part of the
process to complete the SOC GDS IC layout before wafer fabrication. The module cannot be modified
and no code can be added or removed.
7. Physical Security
The module is a sub-chip embedded in the AMD Ryzen 6000 Series SOC, which is a single-chip
standalone device. The module is embedded in all AMD Ryzen 6000 SOC models and SKUs. The SOC
conforms to the FIPS 140-3 Level 2 requirements for physical security. The SOC resides in a package
which provides opaqueness in the visible spectrum and protection against environmental or other
physical damage. It is contained in a tamper-evident enclosure which deters direct observation,
probing, or manipulation and provides evidence of attempts to tamper with or remove the module.
No operator-applied tamper evident seals or security appliances are required, as the seals are applied
as part of manufacturing the SOC. The following table identifies the physical security mechanisms of
the module and the protocol for maintaining them.
© 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved Page 16 of 23
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy
Physical Security Mechanism Recommended Frequency of Inspection / Test Guidance
Inspection / Test Details
Tamper-evident enclosure Inspect whenever the user is Examine the SOC for scratched
concerned they have lost or damaged epoxy coating. If
physical control of the tampering is evident, the user
computer with the Pluton may contact Microsoft at
processor. FIPS@microsoft.com.
Table 10: Physical Security Inspection Guidelines
The following photographs show the tamper-evident enclosure. The image at left shows the module
before tampering, with the epoxy tamper-evident enclosure intact. In the image at right, the epoxy
tamper-evident enclosure shows tampering.
Figure 4: Module before Tampering (Left) and after Tampering (Right)
As a Level 2 module that does not implement EFP/EFT, the module is not subject to hardness testing.
8. Non-Invasive Security
The module does not implement non-invasive attack mitigation techniques to protect the
unprotected SSPs from non-invasive attacks.
© 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved Page 17 of 23
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

| Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
9. Sensitive Security Parameters Management
The module does not generate, establish, or import any critical security parameters (CSPs). The ECC public key used for firmware
application signature verification is a Public Security Parameter (PSP) that is hardcoded in the ROM code. This PSP is immutable and
thus is considered protected.
Key /  Strength  Security  Generation  Import /  Establishment  Storage  Zeroization  Use and
| SSP     | Function and  |     | Export  |     |     |     | Related  |
| ------- | ------------- | --- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | -------- |
| Name /  | Cert. Number  |     |         |     |     |     | Keys     |
Type
ECDSA  P-384  ECDSA SigVer  Pre-loaded by  N/A  N/A  Hard-coded  N/A  Firmware
Public  (192 bits)  (FIPS 186-4),  the  in immutable  application
| Key    | certificate  | manufacturer.  |     |     | memory.  |     | signature      |
| ------ | ------------ | -------------- | --- | --- | -------- | --- | -------------- |
| (SHA2- | #A2348.      |                |     |     |          |     | verification.  |

256)
Table 11: SSPs
The module does not implement non-deterministic random number generation.

| © 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved    |     |     |     |     |     | Page 18 of 23  |     |
| ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------------- | --- |
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy
10. Self-Tests
10.1. Pre-Operational Self-Tests
The module does not perform pre-operational self-tests and is not required to per IG 5.A, as
explained in section 5 Software/Firmware Security.
10.2. Conditional Self-Tests
The module runs conditional cryptographic algorithm self-tests during its crypto subsystem
initialization after every power on or reset. No operator intervention is required. The following
conditional cryptographic algorithm tests are included.
• SHA2-256 Known Answer Test.
• AES-128 encrypt ECB Known Answer Test (only used for self-test).
• AES-128 decrypt ECB Known Answer Test (only used for self-test).
If these self-tests succeed, the module becomes operational and waits for commands from the
platform processor of the AMD SOC. If any self-test fails, the module halts and no cryptographic
function may be performed. To recover from the halt and to re-initialize the module, either a power
off / power on cycle or a reset event must be triggered from outside the module.
Upon receiving the “load firmware” command from the platform processor of the AMD SOC, the
module automatically performs the following conditional cryptographic algorithm self-test.
• ECDSA Signature Verification Known Answer Test on P-384 curve with SHA2-256
The test must pass before the module will perform firmware application signature verification. The
test data, key-pair, and signature used in this known answer test are hard-coded in the ROM. If the
self-test succeeds, the firmware application image inferred by the “load firmware” command is loaded
to the Pluton RAM. The handler of the “load firmware” command inside the module validates the
SHA2-256 ECDSA P-384 signature of the firmware application. If the signature is valid, the handler
jumps out of the ROM image and passes the R4 processor execution control to the firmware
application. If the self-test fails or the firmware application signature is not valid, the handler returns a
failure status to the platform processor of the AMD SOC, and the module returns to its ready state. At
© 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved Page 19 of 23
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

| Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy  |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- |
that point, the platform processor stops sending commands to the module and may trigger a power
off / power on cycle, a reset event, or a retry using a firmware image from the recovery portion.

| © 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved    |     |     |     | Page 20 of 23  |
| ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | -------------- |
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

| Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy  |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- |
10.3. Error States
The following diagram presents the finite state model for the module, including all module states.

Figure 5: Finite State Model Diagram
| © 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved    |     |     |     | Page 21 of 23  |
| ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | -------------- |
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy
The states depicted in the finite state diagram map to the required operational and error states as
follows.
• Power On/Off state: The module is in a Power Off state until power is applied to the
underlying SOC platform, at which point the module enters the Power On state shown in the
diagram. There is a single power source and no standby or hibernation state.
• General Initialization state: This is the same state as the Power On state, as shown in the finite
state diagram. There is no additional action taken by the module between power on and self-
test.
• Approved state: All approved services are available in the approved state, as shown in the
diagram: Load Firmware, PCR3 Extend, All PCR Extend, and Decommission. As the Crypto
Officer role is the only role implemented, the approved state is equivalent to a Crypto Officer
state.
• CSP entry state: This state is N/A for this module as it does not support CSP entry.
• User state: This state is N/A for this module as no User role is implemented.
• Self-test state: The module is in a self-test state at two points pictured in the finite state
diagram: immediately after power on, shown as the SHA/AES self test state, and after the load
firmware command is handled, shown as the ECDSA self test state.
• Error state: The module is in an error state at two points pictured in the diagram: when a hard
error is encountered, shown as Error State: Module Halts, and when a soft error is encountered,
shown as Return Failure Status to Caller. When the module halts due to a hard error, a power
cycle / reset must be triggered to re-initialize the module.
© 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved Page 22 of 23
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Pluton Security Processor ROM – Security Policy
11. Life-Cycle Assurance
11.1. Crypto Officer Guidance
The operation of the module does not need FIPS 140-3 specific guidance. The FIPS 140-3 functional
requirements are always invoked. The module is determined to be a FIPS 140-3 validated module by
using the validated product described in this Security Policy. No Crypto Officer installation or
maintenance is required.
11.2. User Guidance
The operation of the module does not need FIPS 140-3 specific guidance. The FIPS 140-3 functional
requirements are always invoked. The module is determined to be a FIPS 140-3 validated module by
using the validated product described in this Security Policy. No User installation or maintenance is
required.
12. Mitigation of Other Attacks
The module does not claim any mitigation of other attacks.
© 2024 Microsoft. All Rights Reserved Page 23 of 23
This Security Policy is non-proprietary and may be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).