Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
Author: John Batenhorst
Part Number: KWD-AE40
Hardware Version: 1
Firmware Version: 1.0.0
Date: 10/9/2024
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice

TITLE: Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION: FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1 1.0.0
Table of Contents
1 General ...............................................................................................................................................................3
2 Cryptographic Module Specification ..................................................................................................................3
3 Cryptographic Module Interfaces .......................................................................................................................7
4 Roles, Services and Authentication ....................................................................................................................8
5 Software/Firmware Security ........................................................................................................................... 14
6 Operational Environment ................................................................................................................................ 15
7 Physical Security .............................................................................................................................................. 15
8 Non-invasive Security ...................................................................................................................................... 18
9 Sensitive Security Parameter Management .................................................................................................... 18
9.1 Generation ............................................................................................................................................. 20
9.2 Entry ....................................................................................................................................................... 21
9.3 Output .................................................................................................................................................... 21
9.4 Storage ................................................................................................................................................... 21
9.5 Zeroization ............................................................................................................................................. 21
10 Self-Tests .................................................................................................................................................... 22
10.1 Pre-Operational Self-Tests ..................................................................................................................... 23
10.1.1 Pre-Operational Software/Firmware Integrity Test ............................................................................. 23
10.2 Conditional Self-Tests............................................................................................................................. 24
10.2.1 Conditional Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Tests .................................................................................. 24
10.2.2 Software/Firmware Load Tests ............................................................................................................ 25
10.2.3 Periodic Self-Tests ................................................................................................................................ 25
11 Life-Cycle Assurance ................................................................................................................................... 25
12 Mitigation of Other Attacks ........................................................................................................................ 26
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 2 of 26 -

  TITLE:  Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION:  FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1  1.0.0

1  General
This document is a non-proprietary FIPS 140-3 Security Policy for the EF Johnson Technologies’ Kenwood
Cryptographic Module (KCM) version hardware version 1, firmware version 1.0.0.  The KCM is a Level 3
hardware cryptographic module.  Table 1 describes the security level of each section in this document.
Table 1: Security Levels
ISO/IEC 24759 Section 6.  FIPS 140-3 Section Title  Security Level
[Number Below]
| 1   | General                                  | Level 3  |
| --- | ---------------------------------------- | -------- |
| 2   | Cryptographic Module Specification       | Level 3  |
| 3   | Cryptographic Module Interfaces          | Level 3  |
| 4   | Roles, Services and Authentication       | Level 3  |
| 5   | Software/Firmware Security               | Level 3  |
| 6   | Operational Environment                  | N/A      |
| 7   | Physical Security                        | Level 3  |
| 8   | Non-invasive Security                    | N/A      |
| 9   | Sensitive Security Parameter Management  | Level 3  |
| 10  | Self-Tests                               | Level 3  |
| 11  | Life-Cycle Assurance                     | Level 3  |
| 12  | Mitigation of Other Attacks              | N/A      |
2  Cryptographic Module Specification
The KCM is a multi-chip embedded FIPS 140-3 hardware cryptographic module.  It provides access to basic
cryptographic algorithms with available long-term key storage within the module itself.  This module is
intended for use cases where the additional security provided by a level 3 module is needed.  The KCM has
been designed for installation in Kenwood land mobile radio transceivers to provide them with secure
storage for encryption keys and the cryptographic services needed for operation on encrypted P25 systems.
The cryptographic boundary of the KCM encompasses the entire KCM PCB and all hardware and firmware
components contained therein.  No components found on the KCM PCB are excluded from the
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 3 of 26 -

TITLE: Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION: FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1 1.0.0
cryptographic boundary. Any keys stored in the module by a user reside in the boundary. The physical
form of the Module is depicted in Figure 1.
Top View Top View w/out Shield Bottom View Side View
Figure 1: KCM Physical Form
The module itself consists of several ICs and discrete components installed on a PCB. An ARM-based
microcontroller on the PCB holds the module’s firmware in FLASH memory. Table 2 lists the operating
hardware and firmware versions for which the KCM has been tested.
Table 2: Cryptographic Module Tested Configuration
Module Hardware Firmware Version Distinguishing
[Part Number and Version] Features
Kenwood KWD-AE40 V1.0.0
Cryptographic Hardware Version 1
Module (KCM)
The overall security rating of this module is Level 3.
The KCM only operates in a single mode of operation. This is an approved mode and is entered
automatically KCM is powered on or reset. If a failure occurs, the module enters a failure mode which
cannot be exited except by power-cycling or resetting the module. Other than the failure mode, the
module does not operate in any degraded modes.
Table 3 lists the security functions provided by the KCM.
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 4 of 26 -

  TITLE:  Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION:  FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1  1.0.0

Table 3: Approved Algorithms
CAVP Cert.  Algorithm and  Mode/Method  Description/Key Size(s)/  Use/Function
Standard
Key Strength(s)
| A2717  | AES-CBC  | CBC  | 128, 192, 256  | Encryption,  |
| ------ | -------- | ---- | -------------- | ------------ |
Decryption
SP 800-38A
| A2717  | AES-ECB  | ECB  | 128, 192, 256  | Encryption,  |
| ------ | -------- | ---- | -------------- | ------------ |
Decryption
SP 800-38A
FIPS 197
| A2717  | AES-KW (KTS)  | KW  | 128, 192, 256  | Wrap, Unwrap     |
| ------ | ------------- | --- | -------------- | ---------------- |
|        | SP 800-38F    |     |                | SP 800-38F. KTS  |
(key wrapping and
unwrapping) per IG
D.G. 128 and 256-
bit keys providing
128 or 256 bits of
encryption
strength
| A2717  | AES-OFB         | OFB        | 128, 192, 256    | Encryption,    |
| ------ | --------------- | ---------- | ---------------- | -------------- |
|        | SP 800-38A      |            |                  | Decryption     |
| A2717  | Hash DRBG       | Hash DRBG  | SHA2-512, no PR  | Random Number  |
|        | SP 800-90Arev1  |            |                  | Generation     |
| A2717  | HMAC-SHA2-      | HMAC       | SHA2-512         | Verification   |
512
FIPS 198-1
| A2717  | SHA2-512  | SHA2  | SHA2-512  | Hash  |
| ------ | --------- | ----- | --------- | ----- |
FIPS 180-4
| C1327  | AES-CMAC  | Generation  | 128  | Entropy  |
| ------ | --------- | ----------- | ---- | -------- |
Conditioning
SP 800-38B
| N/A  | ENT (P)     | N/A  | N/A  | DRBG Seed – 384  |
| ---- | ----------- | ---- | ---- | ---------------- |
|      | SP 800-90B  |      |      | bits of entropy  |
Vendor  CKG  SP 800-133rev2  128, 192, or 256  Key generation
Affirmed  SP 800-133rev2  Section 6.1 Key  using direct output
|     |     | Generation  |     | of approved DRBG  |
| --- | --- | ----------- | --- | ----------------- |
Method

This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 5 of 26 -

  TITLE:  Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
|     | HARDWARE VERSION:  | FIRMWARE VERSION:  |
| --- | ------------------ | ------------------ |
DATE: 10/9/2024
|     | 1   | 1.0.0  |
| --- | --- | ------ |

Table 4 Lists the non-approved algorithms supported by the KCM.
Table 4: Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation
| Algorithm    | Caveat                | Use/Function             |
| ------------ | --------------------- | ------------------------ |
| AES-CBC-MAC  | Only allowed for use  | TIA-102.AACA-B P25 OTAR  |
within OTAR per IG D.C

The AES-CBC-MAC algorithm is provided for interoperability with the P25 OTAR standard.  The algorithm
uses AES keys and AES block encryption in a way that will not lead to the disclosure of the encryption keys.
The module does not implement any non-approved (not allowed) algorithms.
Figure 2 depicts the KCM logical block diagram in an operational context.

Figure 2: KCM Block Diagram
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 6 of 26 -

TITLE: Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION: FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1 1.0.0
The security design and rules of operation are as follows: The module’s circuitry is protected against
unauthorized modifications and tampering. A multi-pin connector on the module’s PCB is used to supply
the module with power and allow bidirectional communication between the user and the module. This
connector is the only interface to the module, allowing data to be passed across the cryptographic
boundary. The specifics of the physical and logical interfaces available through the multi-pin connector are
detailed in Section 3. After the module is initialized, users are required to assume an authenticated role in
order to use cryptographic services and access CSPs. The bulk of user communication with the module is
done using a proprietary serial messaging protocol. Data input, output, status, and most control for the
module is done using the messaging protocol. When the module detects a critical error, it enters the
failure state, and all cryptographic services will be unavailable until the module is power cycled or reset.
The module initializes itself atomically on power on or reset, including all self-tests, integrity checks, and
DRBG seeding. See Section 10 for a description of the self-tests that are run on load.
3 Cryptographic Module Interfaces
Table 5 lists the KCM’s ports and associated FIPS logical interfaces.
Table 5: Ports and Interfaces
Physical Port Logical Interface Data that passes over port/interface
SPI Data Input User data
Data Output Status requests/responses
Status Output Cryptographic service requests/responses
Control Input Configuration requests/responses
Firmware updates
Busy Status Output Indicates the KCM is ready to receive input
REQ Status Output Indicates the KCM has data to send
Wakeup Control Input Wakes/suspends the module
Tamper Control Input Indicates physical disconnection from user
Reset Control Input Resets the module without disconnecting
power
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 7 of 26 -

  TITLE:  Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION:  FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1  1.0.0

The module does not utilize a trusted channel.  Instead, all CSPs sent to or received from the module are
encrypted with approved cryptographic algorithms.  The module does not input or output plaintext CSPs.
Data input and output, some forms of status, and some forms of control input and output are done over SPI
using a proprietary serial messaging protocol.  The module will not respond to any incoming user requests
or output data over SPI until it completes any task currently in progress, including pre-operational self-
tests, zeroization, firmware load tests, and firmware upgrades.  If the module goes into the failure mode,
the output interface is disabled with a couple exceptions:  User requests over SPI for the module’s status or
the contents of the error log will still elicit a response from the module even while the module is in the
error state since neither of those requests utilize cryptographic algorithms, and responses will not contain
any sensitive information.
The SPI messages sent and received by the module are uniquely defined to logically separate the logical
interfaces utilizing SPI.
4  Roles, Services and Authentication
The KCM supports the Crypto Officer role, a User role, and an Unauthenticated User role.  There is no
maintenance role.  Authentication is required for the Crypto Officer and User roles, and the
Unauthenticated User role requires no authentication.  The module supports only a single operator
assuming one of these roles.
Table 6 lists the KCM’s Roles and their available services.
Table 6: Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output
| Role            | Service                | Input               | Output                  |
| --------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------- | ----------------------- |
| Crypto Officer  | Firmware Update        | MAC                 | Success/Fail            |
|                 |                        | Encrypted Firmware  |                         |
| User            | Generate Random Value  | Length              | Random bytes            |
| User            | Import Keys            | AES Key             | Key Storage Identifier  |
| User            | AES Encryption         | Plaintext Data      | Ciphertext Data         |
| User            | AES Decryption         | Ciphertext Data     | Plaintext Data          |
User  Generate Random Key  Key Length  Key Storage Identifier
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 8 of 26 -

  TITLE:  Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION:  FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1  1.0.0

| User  | AES Key Wrap  | Key Storage Identifier  | Wrapped AES Key  |
| ----- | ------------- | ----------------------- | ---------------- |
User  Module Configuration  Configuration Settings  Configuration Settings
| User  | OTAR MAC Calculate  | Key Storage Identifier  | KMM MAC  |
| ----- | ------------------- | ----------------------- | -------- |
Data Bytes
| User  | P25 LLA Calculate  | Key Storage Identifier  | Response  |
| ----- | ------------------ | ----------------------- | --------- |
Mode
Seed
Challenge
| User  | Erase Key  | Key Storage Identifier  | N/A  |
| ----- | ---------- | ----------------------- | ---- |
User  Erase Keys of Length  Key Length  Zeroization Indicator
| User  | Clear Error Log  | N/A  | N/A                    |
| ----- | ---------------- | ---- | ---------------------- |
| User  | Zeroize          | N/A  | Zeroization Indicator  |
Unauthenticated User
| User  | Reset Password  | Password  | Success/Fail  |
| ----- | --------------- | --------- | ------------- |
Unauthenticated User
| User                  | Get Status  | N/A  | Module Name       |
| --------------------- | ----------- | ---- | ----------------- |
| Unauthenticated User  |             |      | Firmware Version  |
Module Status
| User  | Show Version  | N/A  | Firmware Version  |
| ----- | ------------- | ---- | ----------------- |
Unauthenticated User
| User  | Get Error Log  | N/A  | Error Log  |
| ----- | -------------- | ---- | ---------- |
Unauthenticated User
| User  | Reset  | N/A  | N/A  |
| ----- | ------ | ---- | ---- |
Unauthenticated User
| User  | Wake/Suspend  | N/A  | N/A  |
| ----- | ------------- | ---- | ---- |
Unauthenticated User
| Unauthenticated User  | Self-Tests  | N/A       | Self-Tests Result  |
| --------------------- | ----------- | --------- | ------------------ |
| Unauthenticated User  | User Login  | Password  | Success/Fail       |

Table 7 Lists the KCM’s authorized roles and their associated authentication requirements.
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 9 of 26 -

  TITLE:  Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION:  FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1  1.0.0

Table 7: Roles and Authentication
| Role  |     | Authentication Method  | Authentication Strength  |     |     |
| ----- | --- | ---------------------- | ------------------------ | --- | --- |
Crypto Officer  Identity-based  512-bit HMAC for Firmware Update Service
Probability: 1/2512
HMAC-SHA2-512
Probability over one-minute period: 14,000/2512
| User  |     | Identity-based  | 32-digit hexadecimal number  |     |     |
| ----- | --- | --------------- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- |
|       |     | Password        | Probability: 1/1632          |     |     |
Probability over one-minute period: 5/1632

There are no ways to bypass any of these capabilities, and there is no self-initiated cryptographic output
capability.
The KCM can receive firmware updates, and these can be initiated by the Crypto Officer role any time after
the successful completion of the self-tests.  More information about the firmware update process can be
found in Section 5.
The KCM supports only approved services and always operates in an approved mode.  Approved services
indicate their use by toggling hardware lines and sending serial messages conforming to the proprietary
serial messaging protocol.  Services indicated through serial messages have message payloads that are
uniquely defined based on the service performed.  All approved services provided by the KCM are listed in
Table 8.
Table 8: Approved Services
Service  Description  Approved  Keys and/or  Roles  Access  Indicator
|     |     | Security   | SSPs  | rights to  |     |
| --- | --- | ---------- | ----- | ---------- | --- |
|     |     | Functions  |       | Keys and/  |     |
or SSPs*
Firmware  Update the KCM  HMAC-SHA2- FWHK  Crypto Officer  W, E  Serial
| Update  | firmware  | 512  | FWDK  | W, E  | Message  |
| ------- | --------- | ---- | ----- | ----- | -------- |
Response
AES-OFB
Generate  Use previously  Hash DRBG  DRBG V  User  W, E  Serial
| Random  | seeded DRBG  |     | DRBG C  | E   | Message   |
| ------- | ------------ | --- | ------- | --- | --------- |
| Value   |              |     |         |     | Response  |
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 10 of 26 -

  TITLE:  Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
|     |     | HARDWARE VERSION:  |     | FIRMWARE VERSION:  |     |     |
| --- | --- | ------------------ | --- | ------------------ | --- | --- |
DATE: 10/9/2024
|     |     | 1   |     | 1.0.0  |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | ------ | --- | --- |

Import Keys  Store wrapped AES  AES-KW  AES Key  User  W, E  Serial
|             | key in KCM’s FLASH  |          |          |       |     | Message   |
| ----------- | ------------------- | -------- | -------- | ----- | --- | --------- |
|             |                     |          | KSK      |       | E   |           |
|             | or RAM              |          |          |       |     | Response  |
|             |                     |          | KFK      |       | E   |           |
| AES         | Encrypt blocks of   | AES-CBC  | AES Key  | User  | E   | Serial    |
| Encryption  | data                | AES-ECB  | KSK      |       | E   | Message   |
Response
AES-KW
AES-OFB
| AES         | Decrypt blocks of  | AES-CBC  | AES Key  | User  | E   | Serial   |
| ----------- | ------------------ | -------- | -------- | ----- | --- | -------- |
| Decryption  | data               |          |          |       |     | Message  |
|             |                    | AES-ECB  | KSK      |       | E   |          |
Response
AES-KW
AES-OFB
Generate  Generates a Key  Hash DRBG  DRBG V  User  W, E  Serial
| Random Key  | from random bits  |         |         |     |     | Message  |
| ----------- | ----------------- | ------- | ------- | --- | --- | -------- |
|             |                   | AES-KW  | DRBG C  |     | E   |          |
Response
|     |     | CKG  | KSK      |     | E     |     |
| --- | --- | ---- | -------- | --- | ----- | --- |
|     |     |      | AES Key  |     | G, W  |     |
AES Key  Exports wrapped  AES-KW  AES Key  User  E, R  Serial
| Wrap  | AES key  |     |      |     |     | Message  |
| ----- | -------- | --- | ---- | --- | --- | -------- |
|       |          |     | KSK  |     | E   |          |
Response
OTAR MAC  Calculate the KMM  AES-CBC-MAC  AES Key  User  E  Serial
| Calculate  | MAC as specified  |     | KSK  |     | E   | Message   |
| ---------- | ----------------- | --- | ---- | --- | --- | --------- |
|            | by the P25        |     |      |     |     | Response  |
standard
| P25 LLA        | Calculate the      | N/A  | AES Key  | User  | E   | Serial    |
| -------------- | ------------------ | ---- | -------- | ----- | --- | --------- |
| Calculate      | response to a P25  |      | KSK      |       | E   | Message   |
|                | LLA challenge      |      |          |       |     | Response  |
| Module         | Configure the      | N/A  | N/A      | User  |     | Serial    |
| Configuration  | module             |      |          |       |     | Message   |
Unauthenticated
|     |     |     |     | User  |     | Response  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | ----- | --- | --------- |
Zeroize  Clear DRBG, stored  Hash DRBG  KSK  User  Z, G, W  Serial
keys, stored  SHA2-512  Password Hash  Unauthenticated  Z  Message
|     | password hash  |      |                | User  |          | Response  |
| --- | -------------- | ---- | -------------- | ----- | -------- | --------- |
|     |                | CKG  | Entropy Input  |       | Z, G, W  |           |
|     |                |      | DRBG Seed      |       | Z, G, W  |           |
|     |                |      | DRBG V         |       | Z, G, W  |           |
|     |                |      | DRBG C         |       | Z, G, W  |           |
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 11 of 26 -

  TITLE:  Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
|     |     | HARDWARE VERSION:  |     | FIRMWARE VERSION:  |     |     |
| --- | --- | ------------------ | --- | ------------------ | --- | --- |
DATE: 10/9/2024
|     |     | 1   |     | 1.0.0  |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | ------ | --- | --- |

| Get Status  | Return module   | N/A  | N/A  | User  | -   | Serial   |
| ----------- | --------------- | ---- | ---- | ----- | --- | -------- |
|             | name, firmware  |      |      |       |     | Message  |
Unauthenticated
|     | version, hardware  |     |     | User  |     | Response  |
| --- | ------------------ | --- | --- | ----- | --- | --------- |
version, and status

| Show Version  | Return module   | N/A  | N/A  | User  | -   | Serial   |
| ------------- | --------------- | ---- | ---- | ----- | --- | -------- |
|               | name, firmware  |      |      |       |     | Message  |
Unauthenticated
|     | version, hardware  |     |     |     |     | Response  |
| --- | ------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------- |
User
version, and status
| Get Error Log  | Returns the most  | N/A  | N/A  | User  | -   | Serial   |
| -------------- | ----------------- | ---- | ---- | ----- | --- | -------- |
|                | recent error      |      |      |       |     | Message  |
Unauthenticated
Response
User
Clear Error  Clears the error log  N/A  N/A  User  -  Serial
| Log  |     |     |     |     |     | Message  |
| ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------- |
Response
Self-Tests  Runs cryptographic  AES-KW  N/A  Unauthenticated  -  Serial
|     | algorithm self-tests  | AES-CMAC  |     | User  |     | Message  |
| --- | --------------------- | --------- | --- | ----- | --- | -------- |
and verifies
ENT (P)
integrity of module
Hash DRBG
firmware
HMAC-SHA2-
512
SHA2-512
User Login  Allows a user to  AES-OFB  PWK  Unauthenticated  E  Serial
|     | authenticate with  | SHA2-512  | Password       | User  | Z, W  | Message   |
| --- | ------------------ | --------- | -------------- | ----- | ----- | --------- |
|     | the module         |           |                |       |       | Response  |
|     |                    |           | Password Hash  |       | R     |           |
Reset  Zeroize the module  AES-OFB  PWK  Unauthenticated  E  Serial
| Password  | and set a new  |            |                | User  |       | Message   |
| --------- | -------------- | ---------- | -------------- | ----- | ----- | --------- |
|           |                | SHA2-512   | Password       |       | Z, W  |           |
|           | username and   |            |                |       |       | Response  |
|           |                | Hash DRBG  | Password Hash  |       | W     |           |
password
|     |     | CKG  | KSK            |     | Z, G, W  |     |
| --- | --- | ---- | -------------- | --- | -------- | --- |
|     |     |      | Entropy Input  |     | Z, G, W  |     |
|     |     |      | DRBG Seed      |     | Z, G, W  |     |
|     |     |      | DRBG V         |     | Z, G, W  |     |
|     |     |      | DRBG C         |     | Z, G, W  |     |
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 12 of 26 -

  TITLE:  Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
|     |     | HARDWARE VERSION:  |     | FIRMWARE VERSION:  |     |     |
| --- | --- | ------------------ | --- | ------------------ | --- | --- |
DATE: 10/9/2024
|     |     | 1   |     | 1.0.0  |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | ------ | --- | --- |

| Erase Key  | Makes keys          | N/A  | N/A  | User  | -   | Serial    |
| ---------- | ------------------- | ---- | ---- | ----- | --- | --------- |
|            | unavailable to the  |      |      |       |     | Message   |
|            | user.  Keys still   |      |      |       |     | Response  |
exist in module
memory until
zeroized
Erase Keys of  Zeroizes all keys of  Hash DRBG  KSK  User  Z, G, W  Serial
| Length  | specified length  |     |     |     |     | Message  |
| ------- | ----------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------- |
CKG
Response

Reset  Reboots the  N/A  Entropy Input  User  Z, G, W  Serial
|     | module  |     |            |                  |          | Message  |
| --- | ------- | --- | ---------- | ---------------- | -------- | -------- |
|     |         |     | DRBG Seed  | Unauthenticated  | Z, G, W  |          |
User
|          |                     |      | DRBG V  |                  | Z, G, W  |            |
| -------- | ------------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------- | -------- | ---------- |
|          |                     |      | DRBG C  |                  | Z, G, W  |            |
| Wake/    | Command the         | N/A  | N/A     | User             | -        | Busy Line  |
| Suspend  | module to enter or  |      |         | Unauthenticated  |          |            |
|          | leave low power     |      |         | User             |          |            |
mode
*These access rights are defined as follows:  (G)enerate, (R)ead, (W)rite, (E)xecute, and (Z)eroise.
Installation requires connecting the KCM’s hardware lines to provide power, control, and to communicate
with the module.
A single Crypto Officer is supported by the module and is able perform firmware updates, and that identity
and role is authenticated using an approved keyed-hash message authentication code when a firmware
update service is accessed.  The User is identified and authenticated using a password that can be
configured by the Unauthenticated User role.  Switching between either of these authenticated roles
requires that the operator authenticate as required by that role.  The state of the operator’s authentication
is held in volatile memory and will be cleared when the module is powered cycled or reset, requiring the
operator to reauthenticate the next time they assume an authenticated role.
Firmware is authenticated using the HMAC algorithm.  The probability of a successful random attempt is
2512, which is less than 1 in 1,000,000.  The module is capable of processing no more than 14,000 firmware
updates in a one-minute period, so the probability of a successful random attempt in a one minute period
is 14,000 in 2512 which is less than 1 in 1,000,000.
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 13 of 26 -

TITLE: Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION: FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1 1.0.0
A single authenticated User is supported by the module; any time the password is reset, the module is
zeroized. If an operator fails to authenticate with a password five times sequentially, the module will be
zeroized, and the password will need to be reset for the User role. The password reset service is also used
to establish authentication data for the User role on new modules where no authentication data for that
role has been set previously.
Passwords sent to the module are encrypted using an approved encryption method. The password is a
memorized secret but does not adhere to all SP800-63B requirements for authentication assurance level 1.
The KCM is designed to interact with another device, not a human user, so protections against
compromised or weak ascii passwords are not present in the module. Passwords are 32-digit hexadecimal
numbers, chosen by the device utilizing the KCM. A new password is hashed and stored in the KCM’s
memory using an approved hash function, and the hashes are used to authenticate users on subsequent
authentication requests. Password hashes are not salted since the module has no way to separately store
the salt from the hash inside the module’s boundary. Instead, the hashes are protected in the module’s
memory by the module’s firmware and the physical security mechanisms described in Section 7. The
password length allows for 1632 possible passwords, so the possibility of a successful random attempt is 1 in
1632, which is less than 1 in 1,000,000. Since the module allows for 5 failed password attempts, the
probability of a successful random attempt in a one-minute period is 5 in 1632 which is less than 1 in
1,000,000.
5 Software/Firmware Security
The KCM automatically performs an integrity check on its executable code when powered on or reset. It
computes a hash of the executable code in FLASH and compares it to an expected value that was written
when the module’s firmware was installed. If the two match, the integrity check passes. Otherwise, the
module enters a failed state, and requests made to the module will either be ignored, or the module will
respond with a message indicating an error condition. Any service utilizing a cryptographic algorithm will
be unavailable.
The operator can initiate this integrity check on demand by power cycling or resetting the module.
Firmware updates are provided in the form of an encrypted firmware file and an HMAC. The keys used to
encrypt the firmware and calculate the HMAC are known only to the KCM and the firmware author,
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 14 of 26 -

TITLE: Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION: FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1 1.0.0
EF Johnson. These keys are loaded into the module when an approved firmware is installed. Firmware
updates are provided to the module using the proprietary SPI messaging protocol. When the module is
provided with a firmware update, the update file is saved into volatile memory where the module decrypts
it with its firmware decryption key. Then it performs a firmware load test by calculating an HMAC over the
decrypted update file using its firmware HMAC key. If the HMAC calculated by the module matches the
HMAC provided by the user, then the test is passed, and the update is understood to be a genuine update
provided by EF Johnson. The module then replaces its executable code stored in FLASH with the updated
code contained in the firmware file and resets. If the HMAC calculated by the module does not match the
one provided by the user, the test is failed. The module will return an error to the user, and the firmware
update will not be applied.
Any applied firmware update with a version that does not match what appears on the FIPS 140-3 validation
certificate is outside the scope of this validation and requires a separate FIPS 140-3 validation.
This module is not open source.
6 Operational Environment
The KCM operates in a limited operational environment. The module can receive firmware updates, and
firmware versions validated under FIPS 140-3 will appear on a validation certificate. Installing any firmware
version not appearing in this Security Policy will result in the KCM operating in a non-compliant state.
7 Physical Security
Table 9 lays out the KCM’s Physical Security Mechanisms.
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 15 of 26 -

TITLE: Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION: FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1 1.0.0
Table 9: Physical Security Inspection Guidelines
Physical Security Mechanism Recommended Frequency of Inspection/Test Inspection/Test Guidance Details
Tamper-evident Inspect before putting module into service. Look for damage to the epoxy coating
encapsulating material Further inspections may be conducted at the on the module’s PCB. Any attempts
user’s discretion. to remove the epoxy coating have a
high probability of damaging the
module. If the epoxy coating shows
damage but the module is still
functioning, zeroize the module,
remove it from service, and contact
EF Johnson for assistance.
Tamper Line Test before putting module into service. Set up user login credentials and
Routine tests may be conducted at the user’s configure module to store SSPs in
discretion. volatile memory. Import a key to the
module, then disconnect and
reconnect power and the tamper
line. After logging in, attempt to
encrypt with the previously imported
key – this will fail because the tamper
event erased the key.
The KCM is a multi-chip embedded cryptographic module consisting of production grade components
designed to meet Level 3 physical security requirements. All circuitry and components are protected by a
hard, opaque epoxy coating that cannot be removed or penetrated without causing serious damage to the
module. This coating discourages modifications and will show evidence if any such modifications are
attempted.
Table 10 lays out the KCM’s environmental failure testing and protections.
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 16 of 26 -

  TITLE:  Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
|     |     | HARDWARE VERSION:  | FIRMWARE VERSION:  |
| --- | --- | ------------------ | ------------------ |
DATE: 10/9/2024
|     |     | 1   | 1.0.0  |
| --- | --- | --- | ------ |

Table 10: EFP/EFT
Temperature or  Specify if this condition results in shutdown or
|                   | voltage measurement  | Specify EFP or EFT  | zeroization  |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------------- | ------------ |
| Low Temperature   | ≤ -35°C              | EFP                 | Shutdown     |
| High Temperature  | ≥ +65°C              | EFP                 | Shutdown     |
| Low Voltage       | < 1.62V              | EFP                 | Shutdown     |
| High Voltage      | ≥ 2.10V              | EFP                 | Shutdown     |

Supply voltage and ambient temperature are monitored by the module.  Exceeding the acceptable
thresholds for either voltage or temperature will result in the module entering the failure state, and all
cryptographic services will be unavailable until the module is power cycled or reset after temperature and
voltage conditions return to an acceptable level.
Table 11 shows the temperatures extremes at which the epoxy coating has been tested for adequate
hardness.
Table 11: Hardness testing temperature Ranges
|     |                   | Hardness tested temperature measurement  |     |
| --- | ----------------- | ---------------------------------------- | --- |
|     | Low Temperature   | -30°C                                    |     |
|     | High Temperature  | +60°C                                    |     |

The module does not have any removable doors, covers, maintenance interface, or ventilation holes or slits
that can be used to gain information about the module’s construction, components, or SSPs.  The module
does feature a tamper line that is used to retain a subset of SSPs in volatile memory.  Loss of power to this
line will result in the loss of any SSPs stored in that volatile memory.  It should be noted that this tamper
line is not used to meet any physical security requirements for a level 3 multi-chip embedded cryptographic
module; those requirements are met by the epoxy coating.
No actions are required by users to maintain the module’s physical security mechanisms.
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 17 of 26 -

  TITLE:  Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
|     |     |     | HARDWARE VERSION:  |     | FIRMWARE VERSION:  |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | ------------------ | --- | ------------------ | --- | --- | --- |
DATE: 10/9/2024
|     |     |     | 1   |     | 1.0.0  |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- |

| 8  Non-invasive Security  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
No steps to mitigate non-invasive attacks have been made.
| 9  Sensitive Security Parameter Management  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Table 12 lays out the KCM managed sensitive security parameters (SSPs).
Table 12: Sensitive Security Parameters (SSPs)
Security
Function
Import/
| Key/SSP  |     | & Cert.  |     |     | Establish |     |     | Use & Related  |
| -------- | --- | -------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- | --- | -------------- |
Name/Type  Strength  Number  Generation  Export  -ment  Storage  Zeroisation  Keys
AES Key  128, 192  AES-ECB  Generate  Input and  N/A  AES-KW  Zeroize for  AES
or 256  Random Key  output  Encrypted  all keys1,  Encryption,
AES-CBC
|     | bits  |     | service  | KTS using  |     | FLASH or  | Reset  | AES  |
| --- | ----- | --- | -------- | ---------- | --- | --------- | ------ | ---- |
AES-OFB
|     |     |     | using raw  | AES-KW  |     | Plaintext  | Password  | Decryption,  |
| --- | --- | --- | ---------- | ------- | --- | ---------- | --------- | ------------ |
Cert#
|     |     |     | DRBG  |     |     | RAM  | for all  | Import Keys,  |
| --- | --- | --- | ----- | --- | --- | ---- | -------- | ------------- |

A2717
|     |     |          | output  |     |     |     | keys5,        | AES Key Wrap,   |
| --- | --- | -------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------- | --------------- |
|     |     | AES-CBC- |         |     |     |     | power off     | Generate        |
|     |     | MAC      |         |     |     |     | or reset for  | Random Key,     |
|     |     |          |         |     |     |     | RAM keys3,    | OTAR MAC        |
|     |     |          |         |     |     |     | Erase Keys    | Calculate, P25  |
|     |     |          |         |     |     |     | of Length     | LLA Calculate   |
for
specified
keys4
KSK  256-bits  AES-KW  Generated  N/A  N/A  Plaintext  Zeroize1,  AES
(Key Storage  Cert#  using raw  FLASH or  Reset  Encryption,
Password5,
| Key)  |     | A2717  | DRBG    |     |     | Plaintext  |             | AES            |
| ----- | --- | ------ | ------- | --- | --- | ---------- | ----------- | -------------- |
|       |     |        | output  |     |     | Backup     | tamper      | Decryption,    |
|       |     |        |         |     |     | RAM        | event3,     | Import Keys,   |
|       |     |        |         |     |     |            | Erase Keys  | Generate       |
|       |     |        |         |     |     |            | of Length   | Random Key,    |
|       |     |        |         |     |     |            | for         | AES Key Wrap,  |
|       |     |        |         |     |     |            | specified   | OTAR MAC       |
keys4
Calculate, P25
LLA Calculate
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 18 of 26 -

  TITLE:  Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
|     |     | HARDWARE VERSION:  | FIRMWARE VERSION:  |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | ------------------ | ------------------ | --- | --- | --- |
DATE: 10/9/2024
|     |     | 1   | 1.0.0  |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- |

KFK  256-bits  AES-KW  Pre-loaded N/A  N/A  Plaintext  Firmware  Import Keys
|                |        |     |     | FLASH  | Update2  |     |
| -------------- | ------ | --- | --- | ------ | -------- | --- |
| (Keyfill Key)  | Cert#  |     |     |        |          |     |
A2717
PWK  256-bits  AES-OFB  Pre-loaded  N/A  N/A  Plaintext  Firmware  User Login
|            |        |     |     | FLASH   | Update2  |     |
| ---------- | ------ | --- | --- | ------- | -------- | --- |
| (Password  | Cert#  |     |     |         |          |     |
| Key)       | A2717  |     |     |         |          |     |
Password  16 bytes  N/A  N/A  Input  N/A  Plaintext  Zeroize1,  User Login
|     |     |     | encrypted  | RAM  | power off3,  |     |
| --- | --- | --- | ---------- | ---- | ------------ | --- |
Reset3,
with
Reset
AES-OFB
Password5
Password  256-bits  SHA2- Reset  N/A  N/A  Plaintext  Zeroize1,  User Login
| Hash  | 512  | Password  |     | FLASH  | Reset  |     |
| ----- | ---- | --------- | --- | ------ | ------ | --- |
Password5
Cert#
A2717
FWDK  256-bits  AES-OFB  Pre-loaded  N/A  N/A  Plaintext  Firmware  Firmware
|             |        |     |     | FLASH  | Update2  | Update  |
| ----------- | ------ | --- | --- | ------ | -------- | ------- |
| (Firmware   | Cert#  |     |     |        |          |         |
| Decryption  | A2717  |     |     |        |          |         |
Key)
FWHK  512-bits  HMAC- Pre-loaded  N/A  N/A  Plaintext  Firmware  Firmware
|     | SHA2- |     |     | FLASH  | Update2  | Update  |
| --- | ----- | --- | --- | ------ | -------- | ------- |
(Firmware
| HMAC Key)  | 512  |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Cert#
A2717
Zeroize1,
Entropy  384-bits  Hash  Generated  N/A  N/A  Plaintext  Initialize DRBG
| Input  | DRBG   | per SP 800- |     | RAM  | power off3,  | V and C states  |
| ------ | ------ | ----------- | --- | ---- | ------------ | --------------- |
|        | Cert#  | 90B         |     |      | Reset3,      |                 |
|        | A2717  |             |     |      | Reset        |                 |
Password5
ENT (P)
DRBG Seed  384-bits  Hash  Generated  N/A  N/A  Plaintext  Zeroize1,  Initialize DRBG
power off3,
|     | DRBG  | per SP 800- |     | RAM  |          | V and C states  |
| --- | ----- | ----------- | --- | ---- | -------- | --------------- |
|     |       | 90B         |     |      | Reset3,  |                 |
Cert#
Reset
A2717
Password5
ENT (P)
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 19 of 26 -

  TITLE:  Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
|     |     | HARDWARE VERSION:  | FIRMWARE VERSION:  |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | ------------------ | ------------------ | --- | --- | --- |
DATE: 10/9/2024
|     |     | 1   | 1.0.0  |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- |

DRBG V  256-bits  Hash  Derived per  N/A  N/A  Plaintext  Zeroize1,  Generate
|     | DRBG   | SP 800-  |     | RAM  | power off3,  | Random    |
| --- | ------ | -------- | --- | ---- | ------------ | --------- |
|     | Cert#  | 90Arev1  |     |      | Reset3,      | Value,    |
|     |        |          |     |      | Reset        | Generate  |
A2717
|     |     |     |     |     | Password5  | Random Key  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------- | ----------- |
DRBG C  256-bits  Hash  Derived per  N/A  N/A  Plaintext  Zeroize1,  Generate
|     | DRBG  | SP 800-  |     | RAM  | power off3,  | Random  |
| --- | ----- | -------- | --- | ---- | ------------ | ------- |
|     |       | 90Arev1  |     |      | Reset3,      | Value,  |
Cert#
|     |     |     |     |     | Reset  | Generate  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------ | --------- |
A2717
|     |     |     |     |     | Password5  | Random Key  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------- | ----------- |
1.  Explicitly zeroized by zeroization service – a uniquely defined message is sent by the module to indicate
successful completion of the zeroize service.
2.  Explicitly zeroized by firmware update – a uniquely defined message is sent by the module to indicate successful
completion of the firmware update.
3.  Implicitly zeroized when the volatile memory holding the SSP loses power.
4.  Explicitly zeroized by Erase Keys of Length service – a uniquely defined message is sent by the module to
indicate successful completion of the service.
5.  Explicitly zeroized by Reset Password service – a uniquely defined message is sent by the module to indicate
successful completion of the service.
Table 13 lays out the KCM entropy sources.
Table 13: Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification
| Entropy Sources  | Minimum number of bits of entropy  |     | Details  |     |     |     |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------- | --- | -------- | --- | --- | --- |
Hardware RBG  384  Component of the module’s microcontroller using
an analog entropy source conditioned by a SP800-
90B approved conditioning state.  One bit of entropy
is output per bit output.

9.1  Generation
The approved random bit generator is a SHA2-512 DRBG.  The source of entropy is a hardware random bit
generator provided by the module’s microcontroller.  The state of the DRBG exists in volatile memory only
and is cleared when the module is powered off or reset.  Any generated SSPs are created using unmodified
output from this DRBG.
AES keys can be generated by the module at the request of the user.
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 20 of 26 -

TITLE: Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION: FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1 1.0.0
9.2 Entry
All SSPs imported by the module by a user are sent through the module’s serial messaging protocol and are
protected by approved cryptographic methods. For the purpose of input using AES-OFB, the module
utilizes manual distribution using electronic entry as per IG 9.5.A.
9.3 Output
All SSPs exported by the module by a user are sent through the module’s serial messaging protocol and are
protected by approved cryptographic methods.
9.4 Storage
All SSPs are stored in either volatile (RAM or backup RAM) or non-volatile (FLASH) memory.
An AES key can either be stored in volatile or non-volatile memory at the discretion of the user. AES keys
stored in volatile memory are cleared when the module is zeroized, powered off, or reset. Keys stored in
non-volatile memory are encrypted using the AES key wrapping algorithm with Key Storage Keys (KSKs)
generated by the module. KSKs can be stored either in volatile or non-volatile memory at the discretion of
the user.
Passwords are chosen by users and are not stored by the module. The module does generate a hash of the
password using SHA2-512 which is stored in non-volatile memory.
9.5 Zeroization
The zeroize service is invoked using the module’s serial messaging protocol. The module is always in
approved mode.
The zeroize service will erase the KSKs, which will render the AES keys wrapped by them unrecoverable.
The password hash and internal state of the DRBG are also erased. A uniquely defined serial message is
returned by the module to indicate successful completion of the zeroize service.
KSKs stored in volatile memory can also be cleared by a tamper event, which occurs when the module’s
tamper line loses power.
AES keys stored in volatile memory can also be cleared by resetting the module or removing main power.
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 21 of 26 -

TITLE: Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION: FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1 1.0.0
The FWDK, FWHK, PWK, and KFK are bound to the module’s firmware and can only be cleared by updating
the module’s firmware. The module indicates completion of the firmware update by returning a uniquely
defined serial message indicating successful completion of its pre-operational self-tests.
SSPs stored in the module are protected by the module’s physical security measures detailed in Section 7
and the user authentication requirements detailed in Section 4. Unauthenticated users do have the ability
to zeroize the module using the zeroize service.
10 Self-Tests
The module runs pre-operational and conditional self-tests automatically on power up or reset, and the
module operator can initiate these self-tests on demand by power cycling or resetting the module.
The module does not have or test any critical functions other than those that are tested as described in the
subsections below.
If a test fails, the module enters the error state. Subsequent service requests made to the module will
either be ignored, or the module will respond with a message indicating an error condition. Any service
utilizing a cryptographic algorithm will be unavailable.
The module has a single error state that it enters in the event of an error, and it maintains an error log that
contains what error event most recently occurred. Authorized roles can retrieve the error log, but roles
must be authenticated in order to clear it. Table 14 contains the error codes that may be recorded by the
module when an error occurs causing it to enter the error state.
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 22 of 26 -

TITLE: Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION: FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1 1.0.0
Table 14: Error Code Values
Value Error Reason
(Hex)
$00 No Error No error has occurred
$01 AES Self Test Failed The AES self test failed
$02 DRBG Self Test Failed The DRBG self test failed
$03 HMAC Self Test Failed The HMAC self test failed
$04 Integrity Check Failed Corruption was detected in the KCM’s
firmware
$05 Stored Key Unwrap failed A stored key could not be decrypted
$06 Unexpected Load Key Failed A KCM initiated key load operation failed
$07 Unexpected Load A KCM initiated initialization vector load
Initialization Vector Failed operation failed
$08 Unexpected Key Wrap Failed A KCM initiated key wrap operation failed
$09 Unexpected Encrypt Failed A KCM initiated encryption operation failed
$0A Entropy Collection Failed The KCM’s RNG could not provide entropy
$0B DRBG Initialization Failed The DRBG was unable to be seeded
$0C DRBG Reseed Required The DRBG was unable to provide additional
bytes
$0D Environmental Conditions The KCM’s temperature and/or supply
Failure voltage exceeded its operational thresholds
$0E Flash Memory Failed The KCM’s flash memory could not be written
10.1 Pre-Operational Self-Tests
10.1.1 Pre-Operational Software/Firmware Integrity Test
The module performs only one pre-operational self-test:
• Firmware Integrity Test - Integrity check using SHA2-512
The integrity check is done by calculating the SHA2-512 hash of all the module’s executable code in FLASH
against an expected hash that was written when the module’s firmware was installed. The SHA2-512
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 23 of 26 -

TITLE: Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION: FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1 1.0.0
implementation is validated by the HMAC-SHA2-512 KAT. After the test, all temporary values are cleared
by overwriting their memory with zeroed bytes.
10.2 Conditional Self-Tests
10.2.1 Conditional Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Tests
The module performs the cryptographic algorithm self-tests shown in Table 15:
Table 15: Conditional Cryptographic Algorithm Self Tests
Algorithm or Test Properties Test Test Indicator Details Conditions
Test Method Type
SP 800-90B 40 consecutive Fault- CAST Self test SPI Performed on raw Bootup
RCT bits Detection message data
SP 800-90B 684 repeated bits Fault- CAST Self test SPI Performed on raw Bootup
APT in 1024-bit Detection message data
window
AES-CMAC 128-bit key KAT CAST Self test SPI MAC Generate Bootup
256-bit Message message
128-bit MAC
AES-KW (KTS) 128-bit key KAT CAST Self test SPI Wrap Bootup
message
AES-KW (KTS) 128-bit key KAT CAST Self test SPI Unwrap Bootup
message
Hash DRBG 888-bit entropy KAT CAST Self test SPI Instantiate, Bootup
input message Generate
128-bit nonce
Two 1024-bit
requests
HMAC-SHA2- 512-bit key KAT CAST Self test SPI MAC Generate Bootup
512 272-bit text message
The hardware RBG is initialized and performs a repetition count test (RCT), an adaptive proportion test
(APT), and AES CMAC known answer tests (KAT). The RBG completes its initialization when all tests pass.
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 24 of 26 -

TITLE: Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION: FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1 1.0.0
The AES test performs known answer tests (KAT) with a 128-bit key, one KAT for wrapping a key and
another KAT for unwrapping a key, in order to test the AES forward and reverse functions. The Hash DRBG
KAT test is also an SP 800-90Arev1, Section 11.3 health test for the instantiate and generate functions. The
HMAC test is another KAT that tests the generation of an HMAC using a key and input data. Since the
HMAC is implemented with SHA2-512, the HMAC KAT verifies the SHA2-512 capabilities of the module as
well. After each test, all temporary values are cleared by overwriting their memory with zeroed bytes.
10.2.2 Software/Firmware Load Tests
When new firmware is transferred to the module, the module will validate it using HMAC-SHA2-512. The
HMAC-SHA2-512 implementation is validated by the HMAC-SHA2-512 KAT. After the test, all temporary
values are cleared by overwriting their memory with zeroed bytes. The firmware is not applied if this test
fails.
10.2.3 Periodic Self-Tests
The hardware RBG continuously runs RCT and APT tests as random bits are generated to ensure the
amount of entropy provided remains high.
Additionally, the integrity check is run approximately every 30 minutes to detect any modification to the
module’s code that may arise during its operation. This test happens in the background between user
requests as to not interrupt the user experience; user requests may be briefly delayed by the test, and the
test could be briefly delayed by user requests.
Lastly, the DRBG continuously keeps track of requests and will put the module into the error state when the
number of requests exceeds 248. With the module’s limited performance capabilities, such a condition
would take several thousand years to occur even in extreme use cases.
11 Life-Cycle Assurance
Modules should be physically examined for signs of modifications or tampering, such as damage to the PCB
or the epoxy protecting it. Any modules exhibiting such signs should not be put into service. The
connections and interfaces needed to operate the KCM are specified in Section 3.
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 25 of 26 -

TITLE: Security Policy of the Kenwood Cryptographic Module
HARDWARE VERSION: FIRMWARE VERSION:
DATE: 10/9/2024
1 1.0.0
Modules should also have their firmware version checked to ensure that the installed firmware has been
validated against FIPS 140-3, updating the firmware to a validated version if necessary. The firmware
version is checked by requesting it from the module using the module’s serial messaging protocol. The
name, firmware version, and hardware version output by the module should match the information
provided in Table 2. Updates to the module’s firmware are also done using its serial messaging protocol.
Installing any firmware version not appearing in this Security Policy will result in the KCM operating in a
non-compliant state.
Modules will require that a user set up password to access approved services requiring authentication.
Modules with existing user credentials can be zeroized to erase stored CSPs and allow a new user to
establish their own login credentials. If a module is taken out of service or repurposed, it can be zeroized in
order to erase all CSPs. The module requires no maintenance, and no administrator or non-administrator
guidance is needed outside of the services available through the module’s serial messaging protocol.
If users wish to securely destroy a module, it is recommended that the module be shredded into small
pieces using an electronics shredder designed to destroy electronic storage mediums such as solid-state
drives and hard disk drives.
12 Mitigation of Other Attacks
The KCM is not designed for the mitigation of any attacks outside the scope of FIPS 140-3 Level 3.
This non-proprietary document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice
- 26 of 26 -