Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Version 1.2

Last update: 2024-10-21

Prepared by:

atsec information security corporation

4516 Seton Center Parkway, Suite 250

Austin, TX 78759

www.atsec.com

Snapdragon and Qualcomm branded products are products of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

©2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Table of Contents

1

General...............................................................................................................4

1.1

1.2

This Security Policy Document............................................................................................ 4

How this Security Policy was Prepared................................................................................4

2

Cryptographic Module Specification......................................................................6

2.1

2.2

2.3

Description of Module......................................................................................................... 6

Cryptographic Module Boundary.........................................................................................7

Description of Approved Mode............................................................................................8

3

4

Cryptographic Module Ports and Interfaces...........................................................9

Roles, services, and authentication....................................................................10

4.1

4.2

Roles.................................................................................................................................10

Services............................................................................................................................ 10

5

Software/Firmware security................................................................................12

5.1

5.2

5.3

Integrity Techniques......................................................................................................... 12

On-Demand Integrity Test................................................................................................. 12

Executable code................................................................................................................12

6

Operational Environment................................................................................... 13

6.1

6.2

6.3

Applicability......................................................................................................................13

Tested Operational Environment.......................................................................................13

Specifications for the Operational Environment................................................................13

7

8

9

Physical Security............................................................................................... 14

Non-invasive Security........................................................................................15

Sensitive Security Parameter Management.........................................................16

9.1

9.2

9.3

9.4

Random Number Generation............................................................................................. 16

SSP List............................................................................................................................. 16

SSP Generation, Entry and Output.................................................................................... 17

SSP Storage and Zeroization.............................................................................................17

10 Self-tests........................................................................................................... 18

10.1 Pre-operational tests.........................................................................................................18

10.2 Conditional self-tests......................................................................................................... 18

10.3 Periodic/On-demand self-tests.......................................................................................... 18

10.4 Error States....................................................................................................................... 19

11 Life-cycle assurance...........................................................................................20

11.1 Delivery and Operation..................................................................................................... 20

11.2 End of Life......................................................................................................................... 20

11.3 Crypto Officer Guidance....................................................................................................20

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

2 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

11.4 Configuration Management............................................................................................... 20

12 Mitigation of other attacks.................................................................................21

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

3 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

1 General

1.1 This Security Policy Document
This Security Policy describes the features and design of the Qualcomm ® Pseudo Random Number
Generator cryptographic module using the terminology contained in the FIPS 140-3 specification.
The   FIPS   140-3   Security   Requirements   for   Cryptographic   Modules   specifies   the   security
requirements that will be satisfied by a cryptographic module utilized within a security system
protecting sensitive but unclassified information. The NIST/CCCS Cryptographic Module Validation
Program (CMVP) validates cryptographic modules to FIPS 140-3. Validated products are accepted
by the Federal agencies of both the USA and Canada for the protection of sensitive or designated
information.

This Non-Proprietary Security Policy may be reproduced and distributed, but only whole and intact
and including this notice. Other documentation is proprietary to their authors.

1.2 How this Security Policy was Prepared

In preparing the Security Policy document, the laboratory formatted the vendor-supplied documen-
tation for consolidation without altering the technical statements therein contained. The further re-
fining of the Security Policy document was conducted iteratively throughout the conformance test-
ing, wherein the Security Policy was submitted to the vendor, who would then edit, modify, and
add   technical   contents.   The   vendor   would   also   supply   additional   documentation,   which   the
laboratory formatted into the existing Security Policy, and resubmitted to the vendor for their final
editing.

This document is the non-proprietary FIPS 140-3 Security Policy for the Qualcomm Pseudo Random
Number Generator. It has a one-to-one mapping to the [SP 800-140B] starting with section B.2.1
named “General” that maps to section 1 in this document and ending with section B.2.12 named
“Mitigation of other attacks” that maps to section 12 in this document.

ISO/IEC 24759 Section
6. [Number Below]

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security Level

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

General

Cryptographic Module Specification

Cryptographic Module Interfaces

Roles, Services, and Authentication

Software/Firmware Security

Operational Environment

Physical Security

Non-invasive Security

Sensitive Security Parameter
Management

1

1

1

1

1

N/A

2

N/A

1

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

4 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

10

11

12

Table 1 - Security Levels

Self-tests

Life-cycle Assurance

Mitigation of Other Attacks

1

2

N/A

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

5 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

2 Cryptographic Module Specification

2.1 Description of Module

The Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator is classified as a single chip firmware-hybrid
module for the purpose of FIPS 140-3 validation. It is designed to provide random numbers. The
Qualcomm   Pseudo   Random   Number   Generator  is   a   collection   of   hardware   and   firmware
components   contained   within   the   Snapdragon®  8   Gen   2   Mobile   Platform   SoC.   The  Qualcomm
Pseudo   Random   Number   Generator  implements   a   SHA-256   Hash_DRBG   as   defined   in   SP   800-
90Ar1.   The   firmware   component   of   the   module   controls   the   ENT   (P)   and   DRBG   configuration
parameters. The configuration is fixed for a given version of the firmware and cannot be altered by
the operator of the module.

# Operating System

Hardware Platform

Processor

PAA/Acceleration

1 Qualcomm®

Trusted Execution
Environment
(TEE) TZ.XF.5.24

Snapdragon 8 Gen 2
Mobile Platform

Snapdragon 8 Gen 2
Mobile Platform

N/A

Table 2 - Tested Operational Environments

The hardware component in this submission is identified by hardware version (3.1.0). The firmware
component (“hybrid_prng_library”) has distinct versions (represented by a hash value), depending
on the operational environment. The following firmware version is included:

7fab7110b4ff04e70460b9ffd9b2b5b96ba33faabbec40cb67c87a14c7
9f658fdd258ddd44163c90afe68b7a1766da625533f1f12e9819dade4c
df913dd7138d

The approved algorithms implemented by the module are listed in Table 3.

CAVP
Cert

Algorithm and

Standard

Mode /
Method

Description / Key Size(s) / Key
Strength(s)

Use / Function

#A2945 SHA / FIPS 180-4

SHA2-256

#A2949 SHA / FIPS 180-4

SHA2-256

SHA-256 digest computation
(Implemented in hardware)

Hash for DRBG

SHA-256 digest computation
(Implemented in hardware)

Hash for DRBG

#A2945 DRBG / SP-800-90Ar1 Hash_DRBG SHA2-256

(Implemented in hardware)

Random number
generation

#A3946 SHA / FIPS 180-4

SHA2-256

SHA from firmware
component

Hash for integrity
test

Table 3 - Approved Algorithms

NOTE: the module does not implement any non-approved but allowed, non-approved but allowed
with no security claimed, or non-approved algorithms.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

6 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

2.2 Cryptographic Module Boundary

The   physical   perimeter   of   the  Qualcomm   Pseudo   Random   Number   Generator  is   the   physical
perimeter   of   the   SoC   it   is   implement   in,   i.e.,   the   Snapdragon   8   Gen   2   Mobile   Platform   SoC.
Consequently, the embodiment of the Qualcomm Pseudo Random Number Generator is a single-
chip cryptographic module. Figure 1 below is a block diagram which illustrates the cryptographic
boundary.

Figure 1: Block Diagram

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

7 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Figure 2 - [Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 Mobile Platform]

2.3 Description of Approved Mode

The Qualcomm Pseudo Random Number Generator only supports a single approved mode that is
entered without any operator assistance.
When the Qualcomm Pseudo Random Number Generator is powered on, the pre-operational self-
test   and   cryptographic   algorithm   self-tests   are   executed   automatically   without   any   operator
intervention.   The  Qualcomm   Pseudo   Random   Number   Generator  enters   the   operational   mode
automatically if all self-tests complete successfully.
If any of the self-tests fail, the Qualcomm Pseudo Random Number Generator goes into error state.
All cryptographic services are prohibited while in error state. When an error state is entered, the
Qualcomm Pseudo Random Number Generator  can be reset by the Crypto Officer to reinitialize
itself.

The status of the module can be determined by its availability. If the Qualcomm Pseudo Random
Number Generator  is available, it has passed all self-tests. If it is unavailable, it is in the error
state.

The table in section 4.2 lists all security functions of the module employed for approved services
and their implemented modes of operation.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

8 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

3 Cryptographic Module Ports and Interfaces

 Physical port

Logical Interface

Data that passes over port/interface

Registers

Data Input

Input parameters for data

Data Out Registers Data Output

Output parameters for data

Registers

Registers

Control Input

Input parameters for control

Status Output

Return code, status values

Physical power
connector
Table 4 - Ports and Interfaces

Power Input

Power port or pin for single-chip

As indicated in  Table 4, all status output, control input, and data input are directed through the
interface of the cryptographic boundary, which are the registers of the Qualcomm Pseudo Random
Number Generator. For data output, the data output is provided via data out registers. The module
does not implement a control output interface.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

9 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

4 Roles, services, and authentication

4.1 Roles

Role

Service

Input

Output

Crypto
Officer
(CO)

SHA-256 Hash_DRBG

Self-test

Personalization string,
requested output length
None

Status output

None

Show version

Zeroization

None

All SSPs

Table 5 - Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

Random string

Pass/fail results of self-tests

Current status in status output
interface (as return codes and/or
log messages).
Version of the module

None

The  Qualcomm Pseudo Random Number Generator  implements a single Crypto Officer role and
does not allow concurrent operators.  This Crypto Officer role is implicitly assumed by the entity
accessing the module’s services and no authentication is required.

4.2 Services

The  Qualcomm Pseudo Random Number Generator  does not implement any bypass capability. It
provides random data through the SHA-256 Hash_DRBG service. After the SHA-256 Hash_DRBG
service   is   successfully   used,   the  Qualcomm   Pseudo   Random   Number   Generator  will   set   the
register "RNG_CM_PRNG_CHAR_STATUS" bit 1 to zero, indicating to the operator that an approved
algorithm was used. Table 6 describes the services available to the operator. The following access
rights are used in the table:

 G = Generate: The module generates or derives the SSP.
 R = Read: The SSP is read from the module (e.g., the SSP is output).
 W = Write: The SSP is updated, imported, or written to the module.
 E = Execute: The module uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation.
 Z = Zeroize: The module zeroizes the SSP.

Service

Description

Approved
Security
Functions

Keys and/or
SSPs

Roles Access rights

Indicator

to Keys
and/or SSPs

SHA-256
Hash_DRBG

Hash_DRBG that
uses SHA-256

DRBG
SHA-256

Self-test

DRBG
SHA-256

Self-Test is
executed
automatically
when device is
booted or
restarted

CO

W, E

G, E

DRBG entropy
input string

DRBG internal
state V and C,
DRBG seed

Explicit
(RNG_CM_P
RNG_CHAR_
STATUS
register
field bit 1
set to 0)

N/A

CO

N/A

None

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

10 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Service

Description

Status output Show status of the
module
state
Show version Show the version

of the module

Zeroization

Zeroizes all SSPs
in the module

Table 6 - Approved Services

Approved
Security
Functions

Keys and/or
SSPs

Roles Access rights

Indicator

to Keys
and/or SSPs

None

N/A

CO

N/A

None

CO

CO

N/A

Z

None

None

None

None

N/A

DRBG entropy
input string;
DRBG internal
state V and C,
DRBG seed

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

11 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

5 Software/Firmware security

5.1 Integrity Techniques

The integrity of the firmware component of the module is verified by comparing a SHA-256 value
computed at run-time with the SHA-256 value stored in the module that was computed at build
time.

5.2 On-Demand Integrity Test

Integrity tests are performed as part of the Pre-Operational Self-Tests. A reset of the cryptographic
module can be used to perform the "on-demand" integrity test.

5.3 Executable code

The module consists of executable code that is compiled into a firmware component (binary).

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

12 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

6 Operational Environment

6.1 Applicability

The  Qualcomm   Pseudo   Random   Number   Generator  is   a   single   chip  firmware-hybrid  module   at
security level 1. The operational environment is non-modifiable.

6.2 Tested Operational Environment

See the tested operational environments in Table 2.

6.3 Specifications for the Operational Environment

There   are   no  security   rules,   settings,   or   restrictions   to   the   configuration   of   the   operational
environment.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

13 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

7 Physical Security

The  Qualcomm   Pseudo   Random   Number   Generator  Cryptographic   Module   is   a   single-chip
firmware-hybrid   module   which   conforms   to   the   level   2   requirements   for   physical   security.   The
Qualcomm   Pseudo   Random   Number
chip
enclosed in a production grade component.

  Generator

single

  a

is

At the time of manufacturing, the die is embedded within a printed circuit board (PCB), which
prevents visibility into the internal circuity of the Qualcomm Pseudo Random Number Generator.
The layering process which is used to embed the die into the PCB also prevents tampering of the
physical components without leaving tamper evidence.

The  Qualcomm   Pseudo   Random   Number   Generator  is   further   protected   by   being   enclosed   in
commercial   off   the   shelf   mobile   device   utilizing   production   grade   commercially   available
components and that the mobile device enclosure completely surrounds the  Qualcomm Pseudo
Random Number Generator.

There are no steps required to ensure that physical security is maintained.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

14 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

8 Non-invasive Security

The Qualcomm Pseudo Random Number Generator does not support any non-invasive security
techniques, this section is not applicable.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

15 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

9 Sensitive Security Parameter Management

9.1 Random Number Generation

The DRBG used to generate random bits is an SP 800-90Ar1 compliant SHA-256 Hash_DRBG using
a derivation function  without prediction resistance. It processes a personalization string that is
written   by   the   calling   application   into   a   hardware   register   for   use   by   the   module.   The   calling
application has read/write access to the hardware register that holds the personalization string.

The DRBG obtains 640 samples of 4 bits each to form the seed, from the entropy source. As these
640 samples provide 256 bits of entropy, the DRBG has 256 bits of effective security strength in its
output.

Entropy Source

Minimum number of bits
of entropy

Details

NIST SP800-90B
compliant ESV
(Cert. #E67)

256

The seed is provided by the digitized entropy
data from the physical noise source provided
by ESV.

Table 7 - Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification

9.2 SSP List

The entropy input string inputs to the DRBG are generated internal to the hardware and do not
have an external interface. The DRBG internal state is never output from the module.

Key/SSP
Name
/Type

Strength Security
Function
and Cert.
Number

256 bits DRBG

(A2945)

DRBG
entropy
input
string

DRBG
seed

256 bits DRBG

(A2945)

Generation

Import
/Export

Establish-
ment

Storage

Zero-
ization

Entropy
Source of
the
Qualcomm
Pseudo
random
Number
Generator
(ESV cert
#E67)
Internally in
the DRBG

N/A

N/A

Hardware
registers

Module
reset

N/A

N/A

Hardware
registers

Module
reset

Use and
related
keys

Used to
compute
the DRBG
seed
Related
SSPs:
DRBG
internal
state,
DRBG seed
Used to
compute
the DRBG
internal
state V and
C
Related
SSPs:
DRBG
internal
state,

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

16 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

256 bits DRBG

(A2945)

Internally in
the DRBG

N/A

N/A

Hardware
registers

Module
reset

DRBG
internal
state V
and C

DRBG
entropy
input
string
Random
number
generation
Related
SSPs:
DRBG
entropy
input
string,
DRBG seed

Table 8 - SSPs

9.3 SSP Generation, Entry and Output

The module does not provide any SSP generation service or perform SSP generation for any of its
approved   algorithms.   The   caller   of   the   DRBG   could   use   the   random   strings   output   for   SSP
generation, but this service is not explicitly provided by the module.

The module does not provide any kind of SSP establishment, entry, or output.

9.4 SSP Storage and Zeroization

The entropy input  string and internal state used  by the DRBG are generated internally   by   the
hardware and are not accessible externally to the Qualcomm Pseudo Random Number Generator.
Zeroization of the DRBG CSPs is accomplished by a reset event of the SoC. The registers for the
CSPs will implicitly be set to zero upon the reset, indicating the zeroization was successful.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

17 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

10 Self-tests

Self-tests   implemented   by   the   module   consist   of   the   pre-operational   integrity   test   and
cryptographic   algorithm   self-test   used   for   algorithm   implementations.   All   self-tests   are
automatically performed without any operator intervention during power-up of the module (with
the exception of the ESV continuous health tests). This includes the pre-operational integrity test
and the cryptographic algorithm self-tests.  While the module is executing the self-tests, services
are not available, and input and output are inhibited.

For information about the error state, refer to Section 10.4

10.1 Pre-operational tests

The firmware integrity test is run at startup of the module. The CAST for SHA-256 is executed
before the integrity test is ran.

Algorithm

Test

SHA-256

Integrity test for the firmware component

Table 9 - Pre-Operational Self-Tests

10.2 Conditional self-tests

The   module   performs   self-tests   on   all   FIPS   approved   cryptographic   algorithms   as   part   of   the
approved services using the tests shown in  Table 10.  The module transitions to the operational
state only after the cryptographic algorithm self-tests are passed successfully. The ESV continuous
health tests are performed throughout the operation of the module.

Algorithm

Test

SHA-256

SHA-256

KAT performed for SHA-256 used for integrity test
(firmware)

KAT performed for both SHA-256 cores independently
(hardware)

SP 800-90Ar1 DRBG KAT for DRBG only (hardware)

ESV

Startup health tests, performed on 1024 consecutive
samples

Continuous health tests
(RCT and APT as defined in SP 800-90B)

Table 10 - Conditional Algorithm Self-Tests

10.3 Periodic/On-demand self-tests

A power cycle or reset event is the methodology used to perform the "on-demand" tests.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

18 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

10.4 Error States

If any of the pre-operational self-tests or conditional self-tests fail, the Qualcomm Pseudo Random
Number Generator will enter the error state. While in the error state, data output is prohibited, and
no further cryptographic operation is performed. This is enforced by the control logic  and prevents
external usage when an error is detected.

To recover from the error state, re-initialization is only possible by successful execution of the pre-
operational tests, which can be triggered by either a power-off/power-on cycle or the receipt of a
reset event. Once in the error state, the  Qualcomm Pseudo Random Number Generator  will only
respond to a reset event, which will cause it to re-execute the power up tests. If the error persists,
the Qualcomm Pseudo Random Number Generator will remain unavailable.

Error State

Cause of Error

Status Indicator

Error

Integrity test or CAST failure
(firmware)

Error status
TZBSP_ERR_FATAL_PRNG_FIPS_HYBRID_ERR

Continuous health test failure

Error status
TZ_RNG_STATUS__PRNG_PERMANENT_FAILU
RE is set

Cryptographic algorithm self-test
failure (hardware)

BIST_FAILURE indicator is set

Table 11 - Error States

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

19 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

11 Life-cycle assurance

11.1 Delivery and Operation

The  Qualcomm Pseudo Random Number Generator  is a single chip module in the Snapdragon 8
Gen 2 Mobile Platform. The chips are delivered from the vendor via a trusted delivery courier.
Upon delivery, the customer can detect any potential tampering by visually inspecting the chips.
Any tampering will result in obvious damage or scratches and will likely render the chips non-
functional. Once the product is received by the customer and powered up the self-tests defined in
Section 10 will be executed.

11.2 End of Life

As stated in Section 9.4, the module does not possess persistent storage of SSPs. The SSP value
only exists in volatile memory and that value is zeroized when the module is powered off. The
procedure for secure sanitization of the module at the end of life is simply to power it off, which is
the action of zeroization of the SSPs (Section 9.4). As a result of this sanitization via power-off, the
SSP is removed from the module, so that the module may either be distributed to other operators
or disposed.

11.3 Crypto Officer Guidance

There is no specific crypto officer guidance required for the module.

11.4 Configuration Management

ClearCase, a version control system from IBM/Rational, is used to manage the revision control of
the  hardware  code   (Verilog  code)  and  hardware  documentation.  The  ClearCase  version  control
system provides version control, workspace management, parallel development support, and build
auditing.  The   Verilog   code   is   maintained   within   the   ClearCase   database   used   by   Qualcomm
Technologies, Inc.  Perforce Visual Client(P4V), a version control system from Perforce, is used to
manage the revision control of the Qualcomm firmware code. The Perforce Visual Client provides
version control, branching and merging of code lines, and concurrent development.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

20 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

12 Mitigation of other attacks

The module does not implement security mechanisms to mitigate other attacks.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

21 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Appendix A.

Glossary and Abbreviations

CAVP

CMT

CMVP

CSP

CVT

Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program

Cryptographic Module Testing

Cryptographic Module Validation Program

Critical Security Parameter

Component Verification Testing

DRBG

Deterministic Random Bit Generator

FIPS

FSM

KAT

NIST

PR

RNG

SHA

SHS

SoC

Federal Information Processing Standards Publication

Finite State Model

Known Answer Test

National Institute of Science and Technology

Prediction Resistance

Random Number Generator

Secure Hash Algorithm

Secure Hash Standard

System on Chip

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

22 of 23

Qualcomm® Pseudo Random Number Generator

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Appendix B.

References

FIPS140-3

FIPS PUB 140-3 - Security Requirements For Cryptographic Modules
March 2019
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.140-3

FIPS140-3_IG Implementation Guidance for FIPS PUB 140-3 and the Cryptographic

Module Validation Program
August 2023
https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/fips-140-
3-ig-announcements

FIPS180-4

Secure Hash Standard (SHS)
March 2012
http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.180-4.pdf

SP800-90Ar1 NIST Special Publication 800-90A - Revision 1 - Recommendation for

Random Number Generation Using Deterministic Random Bit
Generators
June 2015
http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-90Ar1.pdf

SP800-90B

(Second DRAFT) NIST Special Publication 800-90B - Recommendation
for the Entropy Sources Used for Random Bit Generation
January 2018
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-90B.pdf

SP800-140B NIST Special Publication 800-140B - CMVP Security Policy

Requirements
March 2020
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-140B.pdf

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

23 of 23

