Zebra Technologies Corporation

Non-Proprietary FIPS 140-3 Security Policy For

Zebra 8887 Cryptographic Module

Firmware-Hybrid Module

HW ID:9134

Firmware Versions:

FIPS Driver Firmware Version 2.1 and NXP Firmware Version 15.68.19.p59

Documentation Version 1.1

Last Update: June 18, 2024

Copyright Zebra Technologies Corp., 2024
Zebra Technologies Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Page 1 of 10

Table of Contents

1.  General .................................................................................................................................................. 3

2.  Cryptographic Module Specification ..................................................................................................... 3

3.  Cryptographic Module Interfaces ......................................................................................................... 6

4.  Roles, Services, and Authentication ...................................................................................................... 6

5.

Software/Firmware security ................................................................................................................. 7

6.  Operational Environment ..................................................................................................................... 8

7.  Physical Security .................................................................................................................................... 8

8.  Non-Invasive Security ........................................................................................................................... 8

9.

Sensitive Security Parameters Management ........................................................................................ 8

10.

11.

Self-Tests ........................................................................................................................................... 9

Life-Cycle Assurance ......................................................................................................................... 9

12.  Mitigation of Other Attacks ............................................................................................................ 10

List of Figures

Figure 1 - Module’s Hardware Component (NXP 88W8887 Radio) .............................................................. 5
Figure 2 – Block Diagram .............................................................................................................................. 5

List of Tables

Table 1 - Security Levels ................................................................................................................................ 3
Table 2 – Module’s HW/FW Components .................................................................................................... 3
Table 3 – Tested Operational Environments ................................................................................................ 4
Table 4 – Approved Algorithms .................................................................................................................... 4
Table 5 – Ports and Interfaces ...................................................................................................................... 6
Table 6 – Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output................................................................................ 6
Table 7 – Approved Services ......................................................................................................................... 7
Table 8 – SSPs ................................................................................................................................................ 8

Copyright Zebra Technologies Corp., 2024
Zebra Technologies Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Page 2 of 10

1. General

This document defines the Security Policy for Zebra 8887 Cryptographic Module from Zebra Technologies
Corporation; hereinafter referred to as the Module.  The module resides in the wireless LAN (WLAN) data
plane of several Zebra Technologies devices.  The Module meets FIPS 140-3 overall Level 1 requirements.
The module is intended for use by US Federal agencies and other markets that require FIPS 140-3
validated Zebra devices.

The below table indicates the individual cause levels and over levels.

ISO/IEC 24759 Section 6
[Number Below]

FIPS 140-3 Section Titles

Security Level

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

General

Cryptographic Module Specification

Cryptographic Module Ports and Interfaces

Roles, Services, and Authentication

Software/Firmware security

Operational environment

Physical Security

Non-invasive security

Sensitive security parameter management

Self-Tests

Life-cycle assurance

Mitigation of Other Attacks

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

N/A

1

1

1

N/A

Overall Level

Security Level 1

Table 1 - Security Levels

The module has an overall security level of 1.

2. Cryptographic Module Specification

The module is a multi-chip standalone Firmware-hybrid module.  The module’s cryptographic boundary
includes the NXP 88W8887 CPU and the driver firmware providing the interface to the 88W8887 CPU.
The module’s cryptographic boundary includes the following components:

Component

Type

FW/HW Version

Module’s Firmware Component: Zebra WLAN Library running
FIPS driver firmware binary file: devnp-mv8887-fips.so

Firmware

Module’s Firmware Component: Zebra WLAN Core running
NXP firmware binary file: sd8887_uapsta.bin

Firmware

FW: FIPS driver
Firmware Version 2.1

FW: NXP Firmware
Version 15.68.19.p59

Module’s Hardware Component: Zebra WLAN Core

Hardware

HW ID: 9134

Table 2 – Module’s HW/FW Components

Copyright Zebra Technologies Corp., 2024
Zebra Technologies Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Page 3 of 10

The module has been tested on the following platforms:

#  Operating System

Hardware Platform

Processor

PAA/Acceleration

1  QNX 7.0.4

Zebra ZQ521 Printer  NXP i.MX 6ULL ARM Cortex-A7

None

and NXP ARMv5TE

Table 3 – Tested Operational Environments

The CMVP makes no statement as to the correct operation of the module or the security strengths of the
generated keys when ported to an operational environment which is not listed on the validation
certificate.

Modes of Operation

By design, the module can only support approved mode of operation and does not implement any Non-
Approved Security Functions. The module does not claim the implementation of a degraded mode of
operation.

The table below lists all approved security functions of the module, including specific key size(s) -in bits
unless otherwise noted- employed for approved services, and implemented modes of operation.  There
are some algorithm modes that were tested but not implemented by the module.  Only the algorithms,
modes, and key sizes that are implemented by the module are shown in this table.

CAVP  Algorithm and

Mode/Method

Standard

Description/Key
Size(s) / Key
Strenth(s)

Use/Function

A1146  AES

AES-ECB

128 bits

[FIPS 197; SP800-38A]

A1146  AES

AES-CCM

128 bits

[FIPS 197; SP 800-38C]

A2718  HMAC

HMAC-SHA-1

160 bits

[FIPS 198-1]

A2718  SHS

SHA-1

N/A

[FIPS 180-4]

Prerequisite algorithms for
AES-CCM

Authenticated Symmetric
Encryption/Decryption

Keyed Hash. Used in
Firmware Integrity Check

Prerequisite algorithm of
HMAC-SHA-1

Table 4 – Approved Algorithms

As the module can only be operated in the Approved mode of operation, and any algorithms not listed in
table 4 above will be rejected by the module while in the approved mode, the tables defined in SP800-
140B for the following categories are missing from this document.

•  Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in Approved Mode of Operation
•  Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in Approved Mode of Operation with No Security Claimed
•  Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in Approved Mode of Operation

Copyright Zebra Technologies Corp., 2024
Zebra Technologies Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Page 4 of 10

Cryptographic Boundary

The module is defined as a multi-chip standalone Firmware-hybrid module (thin red line area), with the
boundary of the Tested Operational Environment’s Physical Perimeter (TOEPP) being defined as the
physical perimeter of the tested platform enclosure around which everything runs.

Figure 1 - Module’s Hardware Component (Zebra WLAN Core)

Figure 2 – Block Diagram

Copyright Zebra Technologies Corp., 2024
Zebra Technologies Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Page 5 of 10

3. Cryptographic Module Interfaces

The module’s physical perimeter encompasses the case of the tested platform mentioned in Table 2.  The
module provides its logical interfaces via Application Programming Interface (API) calls.  The logical
interfaces provided by the module are mapped onto the FIPS 140-3 interfaces (data input, data output,
control input, control output and status output) as follows.

Physical Port

Logical Interface  Data that passes over port/interface

SDIO Interface

Data Input

Arguments for an API call that provide the data to be used of
processed by the module.

SDIO Interface

Data Output

Arguments output from an API call.

SDIO Interface

Control Input

SDIO Interface

Status Output

Arguments for an API call used to control and configure module
operation. The control input interface also includes the registry
values used to control module behavior.

Returns values from firmware API commands used to obtain
information on the status of the module. The status output
interface also includes the log files where the module messages
are output.

N/A

Control Output

N/A

Power Interface  N/A

Module’s hardware component power supply.

Table 5 – Ports and Interfaces

4. Roles, Services, and Authentication

The module supports Crypto Officer (CO) role.  The cryptographic module does not provide any
authentication methods.  The module does not allow concurrent operators.  The Crypto Officer is
implicitly assumed based on the service requested.  The module provides the following services to the
Crypto Officer role.

Role

Cryptographic
Officer (CO)

Cryptographic
Officer (CO)

Cryptographic
Officer (CO)

Cryptographic
Officer (CO)

Cryptographic
Officer (CO)

Cryptographic
Officer (CO)

Service

Self-tests

Input

Output

Command to conduct self-tests

Status of self-tests

Show Status

Command to check status

Module’s current status

Show Version

Command to read module’s version  Module’s name/ID and
versioning information

Load Key

Command to set key

Updated key message

Encrypt/Decrypt

Command to conduct the encryption
and decryption operation

Encrypted or Decrypted
message

Zeroize

Command to zeroize all SSPs

Key zeroize message

Table 6 – Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

Copyright Zebra Technologies Corp., 2024
Zebra Technologies Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Page 6 of 10

The table below lists all approved services that can be used in the approved mode of operation.  The
abbreviations of the access rights to keys and SSPs have the following interpretation:

G = Generate: The module generates or derives the SSP.

R = Read: The SSP is read from the module.

W = Write: The SSP is updated, imported, or written to the module.

E = Execute: The module uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation.

Z = Zeroize: The module zeroizes the SSP.

N/A = The service does not access any SSP during its operation.

Service

Description

Self-tests

Perform cryptographic
algorithm self-tests via
power cycle or API
command

Approved
Security
Functions

Keys
and/or
SSPs

Roles

Access
rights to
Keys
and/or
SSPs

CO

N/A

AES-ECB;
AES-CCM;
HMAC-
SHA-1;
SHA-1;

Firmware
Integrity
Test Key
(non-SSP)

Indicator

Self-Tests
completion
status log
message

Show
status

Show
version

Show cryptographic module
status

Show module’s name/ID
and versioning information

N/A

N/A

N/A

CO

N/A

N/A

N/A

CO

N/A

N/A

Load key

Load cryptographic key

N/A

AES Key

CO

W

Encrypt /
Decrypt

Perform AES-CCM
generation/verification

AES-ECB;
AES-CCM;

AES Key

CO

R, E

Zeroize

Zeroize all CSP’s contained
in memory

N/A

All SSPs

CO

Z

Table 7 – Approved Services

5. Software/Firmware security

Integrity Techniques

Key Load
completion
log message

Encryption or
Decryption
completion
message

Zeroization
completion
message

The module is provided in the form of binary executable code.  To ensure the firmware security, the
module is protected by HMAC-SHA-1 (HMAC Cert. #A2718) algorithm.  The firmware integrity test key
(non-SSP) was preloaded to the module’s binary at the factory and used for firmware integrity test only at

Copyright Zebra Technologies Corp., 2024
Zebra Technologies Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Page 7 of 10

the pre-operational self-test.  At module initialization, the HMAC value is recalculated and compared to
the hardcoded build-time generated MAC value.  If at load time the signature does not match, the crypto
module library exits with error.  If at any point the integrity checks or known answer test fails, the module
will go into an error state and will not be useable until the module is power cycled, and the integrity
checks and known answer tests are run again.

Integrity Test On-Demand

While the integrity test is performed as part of the Pre-Operational Self Tests, the operator can also run
the on-demand tests at any time using the API or by power cycling the device.

6. Operational Environment

The module operates QNX 7.0.4, which is a non-modifiable operational environment installed on a generic
operating platform (e.g., printer).  The firmware driver component of the module is loaded onto the
embedded OS prior to deployment to the end user.  The QNX 7.0 embedded operating system runs in
single operator mode only.  The module has been tested on QNX 7.0 running on a Zebra ZQ521 printer
with i.MX6ULL CPU.

7. Physical Security

The module’s physical boundary is drawn at the casing of the tested operational platform (Zebra ZQ521
printer).  The physical components that comprise the module are production grade.  All ICs are coated
with industry standard passivation.

8. Non-Invasive Security

The module does not claim any non-invasive security.

9. Sensitive Security Parameters Management

The following table summarizes the keys and Sensitive Security Parameters (SSPs) that are used by the
cryptographic services implemented in the module.

Stren
gth

Key /
SSP
Name
/ Type

AES
Key

128
bits

Security
Function
and Cert.
#

AES-ECB;
AES-CCM;

Cert. #
A1146

Gener
ation

Import /
Export

Establish
-ment

Storage

Zeroization  Use &
related
keys

N/A

Module
Hardware
Component’s
RAM

API
Zeroization
function

Used to
protect
module’s
wireless
radio
data

N/A

Import:
This key is
entered
into the
module via
API within
GPC’s INT
pathways
in plaintext
Export: No

Copyright Zebra Technologies Corp., 2024
Zebra Technologies Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Page 8 of 10

Table 8 – SSPs

10.

Self-Tests

When the module is loaded or instantiated (after being powered off, rebooted, etc.), the module runs
pre-operational self-tests.  The operating system is responsible for the initialization process and loading of
the library.  The module is designed with a default entry point (DEP) which ensures that the self-tests are
initiated automatically when the module is loaded.  Prior to the module providing any data output via the
data output interface, the module performs and passes the pre-operational self-tests.  Following the
successful pre-operational self-tests, the module executes the Conditional Cryptographic Algorithm Self-
tests (CASTs).

The self-test success or failure results are an output of the return value of the library load API call, which is
functioning as the self-test status indicator.  If any one of the self-tests fails, the module transitions into
an error state and outputs the error message via the module’s status output interface.  While the module
is in the error state, all data through the data output interface and all cryptographic operations are
disabled.  The error state can only be cleared by reloading the module.  All self-tests must be completed
successfully before the module transitions to the operational state.

Below are the details of the self-tests conducted by the module.

1.  Pre-Operational Self-Tests:

•  Pre-operational Firmware Integrity Test

o  HMAC-SHA-1 KAT
o  SHA-1 KAT
o  Firmware Integrity Test (HMA-SHA-1)

2.  Conditional Self-Test:

•  Conditional Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Tests (CASTs)

o  AES-ECB 128 bits Encrypt KAT
o  AES-ECB 128 bits Decrypt KAT
o  AES-CCM 128 bits Authenticated Encrypt KAT
o  AES-CCM 128 bits Authenticated Decrypt KAT
o  HMAC-SHA-1 KAT
o  SHA-1 KAT

11.

Life-Cycle Assurance

Secure Operation

The validated firmware binary files, including the Zebra 8887 FIPS driver firmware binary file: devnp-
mv8887-fips.so, and the NXP firmware binary file: sd8887_uapsta.bin, were loaded/installed into the
module while being manufactured, and cannot be updated by the operator.

The module is enabled by default (and hence used automatically) as part of the device without any user
configuration.  The module always runs in the Approved Mode of Operation and does not implement any
Non-Approved Security Functions.  When the module is instantiated (after being powered off, rebooted,
etc.), the module runs pre-operational self-tests without any operator intervention.  The Module will be
operated in an approved mode of operation when pre-operational self-tests have completed successfully.

The module is provided directly to solution developers and is not intended for direct download by the
general public.

Copyright Zebra Technologies Corp., 2024
Zebra Technologies Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Page 9 of 10

The module supports a Crypto Officer role only.

The module provides no authentication.

When the module has not been placed in a valid role, the operator shall not have access to any
cryptographic services.

The operator shall be capable of commanding the module to perform the power up self-tests by cycling
power or resetting the module.

Power-up self-tests do not require any operator action.

Data output shall be inhibited during self-tests, zeroization, and error states.

Status information does not contain CSPs or sensitive data that if misused could lead to a compromise of
the module.

There are no restrictions on which keys or CSPs are zeroized by the zeroization service.

The module does not support concurrent operators.

The module does not support a maintenance interface or role.

The module does not support manual key entry.

The module does not have any external input/output devices used for entry/output of data.

The module does not output plaintext CSPs.  The module does not output intermediate key values.

12.

Mitigation of Other Attacks

The module has not been designed to mitigate any specific attacks outside the scope of FIPS 140-3
requirements.

Copyright Zebra Technologies Corp., 2024
Zebra Technologies Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Page 10 of 10

