Samsung NVMe TCG Opal SSC SEDs PM9A3 Series

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Document Version: 1.0

H/W Version:    MZ1L2960HCJR-00AMV[1], MZ1L21T9HCLS-00AMV[1],

MZ1L23T8HBLA-00AMV[1], MZCL21T9HCJR-00AMV[2],

MZCL23T8HCLS-00AMV[2], MZCL27T6HBLA-00AMV[2]

and MZEL215THBLA-00AMV[3]

F/W Version:      GDC76M4Q[1], GDC79M4Q[1], GDC62M4Q[2],

GDC63M4Q[2], GDDB3M2Q[3], GDDB4M2Q[3]

This non-proprietary Security Policy may only be copied in its entirely without alterations including this copyright notice.

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Revision History

Version

Change

1.0

Initial Version

2

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Table of Contents

1.  GENERAL

1.1.  SCOPE

1.2.  ACRONYMS

2.  CRYPTOGRAPHIC MODULE SPECIFICATION

2.1.  HARDWARE AND PHYSICAL CRYPTOGRAPHIC BOUNDARY

2.2.  MODULE CRYPTOGRAPHIC BOUNDARY

2.3.  VERSION INFORMATION

2.4.  CRYPTOGRAPHIC FUNCTIONALITY

2.4.1.  APPROVED ALGORITHM

2.4.2.  NON-APPROVED ALGORITHM

2.5.  APPROVED MODE OF OPERATION

3.  CRYPTOGRAPHIC MODULE INTERFACES

4.  ROLES, SERVICES, AND AUTHENTICATION

4.1.  ROLE

4.2.  APPROVED SERVICES

5.  SOFTWARE/FIRMWARE SECURITY

6.  OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT

7.  PHYSICAL SECURITY

8.  NON-INVASIVE SECURITY

9.  SENSITIVE SECURITY PARAMETER MANAGEMENT

10.  SELF-TESTS

10.1.  PRE-OPERATIONAL TEST

10.2.  CONDITIONAL TEST

11.  LIFE-CYCLE ASSURANCE

11.1.  SECURE INSTALLATION

11.2.  OPERATIONAL DESCRIPTION OF MODULE

12.  MITIGATION OF OTHER ATTACKS

3

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

4

4

4

5

5

7

7

8

8

8

8

9

10

10

10

12

13

14

15

16

18

18

18

19

19

19

20

1.  General

1.1.  Scope

This document outlines the security policy for Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Samsung NVMe TCG Opal SSC SEDs PM9A3
Series, herein after referred to as the “cryptographic module” or “module”, SSD (Solid State Drive). This module satisfies all
applicable FIPS 140-3 Security Level 1 hardware cryptographic module  requirements. It supports TCG Opal SSC based SED
(Self-Encrypting Drive) features  that  is designed to protect unauthorized access to the user data  stored in its NAND Flash
memories. The cryptographic module’s controller has built-in AES hardware engines that provide on-the-fly encryption and
decryption  of  the  user  data  without  performance  loss.  The  SED  design  also  allows  for  instant  data  sanitization  via
cryptographic erase.

ISO/IEC 24759
Section 6.
[Number Below]
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security Level

General
Cryptographic module specification
Cryptographic module interfaces
Roles, services, and authentication
Software/Firmware security
Operational environment
Physical security
Non-invasive security
Sensitive security parameter management
Self-tests
Life-cycle assurance
Mitigation of other attacks

Table 1. Security Levels

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
N/A
1
1
1
N/A

1.2.  Acronyms

Acronym
CTRL
CPU
DRAM
DRAM I/F
ECC
EDC
KAT
LBA
MEK
PSID
NAND
NAND I/F
NVMe
ROM

Description

Controller
Central Processing Unit (ARM-based)
Dynamic Random Access Memory
Dynamic Random Access Memory Interface
Error Correction Code
Error Detection Code
Known-answer Test
Logical Block Address
Media Encryption Key
Physical Presence SID (Security Identifier)
NAND Flash Memory
NAND Flash Interface
Non-Volatile Memory Host Controller Interface Specification
Read-Only Memory

Table 2. Acronyms

4

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

2.  Cryptographic Module Specification

2.1.  Hardware and Physical Cryptographic Boundary

This firmware version, within the scope of this validation, must undergo validation through the FIPS 140-3 CMVP. Any other
firmware loaded into this module is beyond the scope of this validation and requires a separate FIPS 140-3 validation.

Below  are  photographs  showing  the  cryptographic  module  views  of  each  form  factor.  The  multiple-chip  embedded
cryptographic module includes both hardware and firmware components.

The cryptographic boundary of the M.2 module is defined as the physical perimeter of the PCB.

Figure 1. Specification of the PM9A3 M.2 Form Factor Cryptographic Boundary

The E1.S and E1.L cryptographic modules are each enclosed in two aluminum alloy cases. These cases define the modules’
cryptographic boundary.

Figure 2. Specification of the PM9A3 E1.S Form Factor Cryptographic Boundary

5

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Figure 3. Specification of the PM9A3 E1.L Form Factor Cryptographic Boundary

6

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

2.2.  Module Cryptographic Boundary

The PM9A3 series utilizes a single-chip controller with an NVMe interface for system side communication and integrates
Samsung NAND flash memory for internal storage. The following figure depicts the module’s operational environment.

Figure 4. Block Diagram for Samsung NVMe TCG Opal SSC SEDs PM9A3 Series

2.3.  Version information

Model

Hardware Version

Firmware Version

PM9A3

MZ1L2960HCJR-00AMV
MZ1L21T9HCLS-00AMV
MZ1L23T8HBLA-00AMV
MZCL21T9HCJR-00AMV
MZCL23T8HCLS-00AMV
MZCL27T6HBLA-00AMV

MZEL215THBLA-00AMV

GDC76M4Q
GDC79M4Q

GDC62M4Q
GDC63M4Q

GDDB3M2Q
GDDB4M2Q

Table 3. Cryptographic Module Tested Configuration

Distinguishing
Features
960GB
1.92TB
3.84TB
1.92TB
3.84TB
7.68TB

15.36TB

7

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

2.4.  Cryptographic Functionality

The module does not implement any "Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation".

2.4.1. Approved Algorithm

The cryptographic module supports the following Approved algorithms for secure data storage:

CAVP Cert

Algorithm and Standard

A1157

A1157

A1153

A1155
A1158
Vendor
Affirmed

AES /
  FIPS 197, SP 800-38A
AES /
FIPS 197, SP 800-38E
DRBG /
SP 800-90A Rev. 1
RSA / FIPS 186-4
SHS / FIPS 180-4
CKG / SP 800-133 Rev. 2

Mode/
Method

ECB

XTS1

Hash_ DRBG
(SHA-256)
SigVer
SHA-256
Section 4 and
Section 6.1

N/A

ENT (P) / SP 800-90B

N/A

N/A

Description/
Key Size(s)/
Key Strength(s)
256 bits

Use/Function

Prerequisite for AES-XTS (A1157)

256 bits

Data Encryption / Decryption

N/A

3072 bits
N/A
N/A

Deterministic Random Bit
Generation
Digital Signature Verification
Message Digest
Cryptographic Key Generation
(Symmetric keys which are direct
unmodified outputs from the
DRBG)
Non-deterministic Random
Number Generator (only used for
generating seed materials for the
DRBG). Provides a minimum of 256
bits of entropy for DRBG seed.

Note that not all algorithms/modes that appear on the module’s CAVP certificates are utilized by the module.  Table 4 lists
only the algorithms/modes that are utilized by the module.

Table 4. Approved Algorithms

2.4.2. Non-Approved Algorithm

The following algorithms are not intended to be used as security functions, and not used whatsoever to meet any FIPS
140-3 requirements. These algorithms are not provided through a non-approved services to an operator.

Algorithm

AES-XTS /
FIPS 197, SP 800-38E

AES-CCM /
FIPS 197, SP 800-38C
PBKDF2
HMAC /
SHA-256

Caveat
No Security Claimed; AES-XTS is only
used for firmware decryption during
ROM initialized.

Use / Function

Firmware Decryption

No Security Claimed; Non-approved
algorithms here are only used for
encrypting or obfuscating the CSP.

Key Encryption and Decryption

Key Derivation

Key Derivation

Table 5. Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security Claimed

2.5.  Approved Mode of Operation

1  AES-ECB is the pre-requisite for AES-XTS; AES-ECB alone is NOT supported by the cryptographic module in approved mode.

8

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

The module always defaults to an Approved mode of operation. To ensure it remains in this mode, operators must strictly
follow the guidance outlined in section 11. The user can verify the module's Approved status using the “Show Status” Service
in Table 7 via the NVM Express Identify Controller command.

3.  Cryptographic Module Interfaces

The module doesn’t support a Control output interface.

Physical port

Logical interface

Data that passes over port/interface

NVMe Connector

Data Input / Output

Control Input

Status Output

Plaintext data; signed data;
Commands  input  logically  via  an  API;  signals  input  logically  or
physically via one or more physical ports
Status  information  output  logically  via  an  API;  signal  outputs
logically or physically via one or more physical ports

Control Input

Signals input logically or physically via one or more physical ports

JTAG

Status Output

Signal  outputs  logically  or  physically  via  one  or  more  physical
ports

Table 6. Ports and Interfaces

9

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

4.  Roles, Services, and Authentication

4.1.  Role

The module does not support role authentication. Roles are implicitly assumed based on the service they are invoking.

Role

Service

Input

Output

Cryptographic
Officer (CO)

Show Status
Lock/Unlock an LBA Range
Erase an LBA Range’s Data
Update the firmware
Get Random Number
IO Command
FormatNVM / Sanitize / DeleteNS
Revert

Maintenance2  Diagnostics

N/A
LBA Range
LBA Range
FW image binary
N/A
LBA
LBA Range
PSID
N/A

Table 7. Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

Status
Status
Status
Status
Status
Status
Status
N/A
N/A

4.2.  Approved Services

The cryptographic module does not offer bypass capabilities.

Service

Description

Show Status

Lock/Unlock an
LBA Range

Show approved
version status of
the module / FIPS
fail mode

Block or allow
read (decrypt) /
write (encrypt) of
user data.

Erase an LBA
Range’s Data

Erase user data by
changing the data
encryption key.

E: EXECUTE; W: WRITE; G: GENERATE; Z: ZEROISE

Approved
Security
Functions

Keys and/or
SSPs

Roles

N/A

N/A

Cryptographic
Officer (CO)

Access
rights to
Keys and
SSPs
E  W  G  Z

N/A

MEK4

  O

  O

Indicator3

NVM Command:
Identify Controller
command
Result : Status Code
UID:
Locking_GlobalRange /
Locking_RangeNNNN
TCG Method: Set
Result: TCG status code

Hash_ DRBG
(SHA-256)

CKG

ENT (P)

DRBG Internal
State V value
DRBG Internal
State C value
DRBG Seed
DRBG Entropy
Input String
MEK

O

  O

  UID:

O

  O

O

  O

O

  O

  O  O  O

O

  O

K_AES_256_GlobalRange
_Key /
K_AES_256_RangeNNNN
_Key
TCG Method: GenKey
Result: TCG status code

UID: SPObj(AdminSP)
TCG Method: Revert

Revert

Erase user data in
all Range by

Hash_ DRBG
(SHA-256)

DRBG Internal
State V value

2  Maintenance role is operator that is responsible for using the JTAG

3  The result of NVMe or TCG command is used as an indicator

4 Specified type of access of Lock/Unlock an LBA Range service to MEK was limited to only RAM

10

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

changing the data
encryption key,
initialize range
settings, and
reset PINs for
TCG.

CKG
ENT (P)

Update the
firmware

Update the
firmware

RSA

Get Random
Number

Provide a random
number
generated by the
CM.

Hash_ DRBG
(SHA-256)

CKG

ENT (P)

DRBG Internal
State C value

DRBG Seed

DRBG Entropy
Input String

MEK

FW
Verification
Key
DRBG Internal
State V value
DRBG Internal
State C value
DRBG Seed
DRBG Entropy
Input String

IO Command

Read/Write user
data

AES-XTS

MEK

FormatNVM /
Sanitize /
DeleteNS

Erase user data by
changing the data
encryption key.

Hash_ DRBG
(SHA-256)

CKG

ENT (P)

DRBG Internal
State V value
DRBG Internal
State C value
DRBG Seed
DRBG Entropy
Input String
MEK

Result: TCG status code

Admin Command:
Firmware Commit
Result : Status Code

UID: ThisSP
TCG Method: Random
Result: TCG status code

NVM Command:
Write / Read
Result : Status Code

Admin Command:
Format NVM / Sanitize /
Namespace
Management
Result : Status Code

O

  O

O

  O

O

  O

  O  O  O

O

O

  O

O

  O

O

  O

O

  O

O

O

  O

O

  O

O

  O

O

  O

  O  O  O

Diagnostics

Perform
Maintenance

N/A

N/A

Maintenance

  N/A

Table 8. Approved Services

11

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

5.  Software/Firmware Security

-

The cryptographic module employs a 428-byte error detection code for firmware integrity testing, which is performed
during power-on reset.

12

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

6.  Operational Environment

-

-

-

-

The cryptographic module operates in a limited operational environment, consisting of the module’s firmware. This
limited operational setting does not require any specific security rules, settings/configurations, or restrictions to be set.

The cryptographic module does not provide any general-purpose operating system to the operator.

Firmware download is only available for CMVP validated firmware versions. Unauthorized modification of the firmware is
prevented by the pre-operational firmware integrity test and conditional firmware load test.

Since the cryptographic module is zeroised through the procedure for using maintenance role, it is restricted preventing
uncontrolled access to CSPs and uncontrolled modifications of SSPs.

13

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

7.  Physical Security

The following physical security mechanisms are implemented in the cryptographic module:

•

Production grade components.

The  following  table  summarizes  the  actions  required  by  the  Cryptographic  Officer  Role  to  ensure  that  physical  security  is
maintained:

Physical Security
Mechanisms

Production grade
components

Recommended Frequency
of Inspection/Test

Inspection/Test Guidance Details

N/A

N/A

Table 9. Inspection/Testing of Physical Security Mechanisms

The  cryptographic  module  supports  the  Maintenance  role.  To  assume  the  Maintenance  role,  operators  must  comply  with  the
following rule:

•  The operator must zeroise all SSPs listed in the Table 10 by invoking the Revert service in the Table 8 and initiate the Power

on reset before entering the Maintenance role.

•  To exit the Maintenance role, the operator must procedurally perform the Revert service in the Table 8 and perform a
power-on reset of the module. To finish with, the operator performing the Show Status service in Table 8 confirms the
original firmware version listed in the Table 3 remains unchanged.

•

The operator is responsible for managing the module's JTAG port and should conduct regular inspections associated with
the  enabled  JTAG  port  as  frequently  as  possible  in  order  to  prevent  potential  security  risks  such  as  potential  code
modifications with no firmware load test, reading and writing of register information or other impactful security changes.

14

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

8.  Non-Invasive Security

-

The module does not implement any non-invasive attack mitigation techniques. Therefore, this section is not applicable.

15

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

9.  Sensitive Security Parameter Management

-

-

-

Temporary SSPs and SSPs stored in volatile memory are automatically zeroized upon power-on reset.

The module performs zeroization by overwriting the target SSP with random values generated by the DRBG.

The module does not import or export SSPs.

Generation

Establishment

Import /
Export

Storage

Zeroisation

Use &
related
keys

Key /
SSP
Name /
Type

DRBG
Internal
State V
value

DRBG
Internal
State C
value

Strength

440-bit

440-bit

DRBG
Seed

N/A

DRBG
Entropy
Input
String

N/A

Security
Function
and Cert.
Number
Hash_
DRBG
(SHA-
256) /
A1153
Hash_
DRBG
(SHA-
256) /
A1153
Hash_
DRBG
(SHA-
256) /
A1153
Hash_
DRBG
(SHA-
256) /
A1153

SP 800-90A
HASH_DRBG
(SHA-256)

SP 800-90A
HASH_DRBG
(SHA-256)

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

ENT (P)

N/A

N/A

ENT (P)

N/A

N/A

MEK

256-bit

AES-XTS /
A1157

SP 800-90A
HASH_DRBG
(SHA-256)

N/A

N/A

MEK

MEK

MEK

MEK

Data
encryption
and
decryption
of user data

Plaintext
in RAM

Plaintext
in RAM

Plaintext
in RAM

Plaintext
in RAM

Plaintext
in RAM

Plaintext
in Flash

Implicitly
zeroised by
Power on
reset

Implicitly
zeroised by
Power on
reset

Implicitly
zeroised by
Power on
reset

Implicitly
zeroised by
Power on
reset

Implicitly
zeroised by
Power on
reset /
Explicitly
zeroised via
“Unlock an
LBA Range”
service and
indicate
with its
indicator
Explicitly
zeroised via
“Erase an
LBA Range’s
Data”,
“Revert”
and
“FormatNV
M /
Sanitize /

16

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Firmware
Verificati
on Key5

128-bit

RSA /
A1155

Generated
during the
manufacturing
process, is
included as
part of the FW.

N/A

N/A

Plaintext
in HW
SFR6

Table 10. SSPs

DeleteNS”
services
and
indicate
with their
indicators
Implicitly
zeroised by
Power on
reset and
after
completion
of “Update
the
firmware”
service

Firmware
Load Test

-

The module contains an entropy source, compliant with SP 800-90B, within the module’s cryptographic boundary.

Entropy sources

ENT (P)

Minimum number of bits
of entropy
0.5 entropy per bit7

Details

Entropy source for Hash_DRBG

Table 11. Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification

5  This is not considered an SSP.

6  HW SFR (Special Function Register) is a register within a hardware cryptographic algorithm IP, which has characteristic of volatile memory.

7  Estimated amount of entropy per the source’s output bit is 0.841621 and Samsung conservatively claims to be set at 0.5 per bit.

17

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

10.   Self-Tests

All cryptographic algorithm self-tests are executed during power-on. While executing the following self-tests, all data output is
inhibited  until  the  self-test  completes.  To  execute  the  pre-operational  tests  on-demand,  the  operator  may  power-cycle  the
module. Cryptographic algorithm self-tests are performed prior to the approved algorithms’ first use. If a cryptographic module
fails a self-test, the module will enter an error state. While in this state, all data output is inhibited.

10.1.  Pre-Operational Test

Algorithm

Type

EDC

Firmware
integrity test

Description

Firmware integrity test is performed by using 428 byte error
correction code (ECC) at power-on.
Table 12. Pre-operational Self-tests

10.2.  Conditional Test

Algorithm

Type

AES

Critical function test

AES

AES

SHS

RSA

Cryptographic
algorithm self-test
Cryptographic
algorithm self-test
Cryptographic
algorithm self-test
Cryptographic
algorithm self-test

Description
Duplicate Key Test for AES-XTS described in FIPS 140-3 IG C.I (i.e. key_1 ≠
key_2) when key is generated
KAT: AES-256 XTS mode encryption and decryption

KAT: AES-256 ECB mode encryption and decryption

KAT: SHA-256 hash digest

KAT: RSA-3072 verification is performed before firmware load test

RSA

Firmware load test

DRBG

ENT (P)

Cryptographic
algorithm self-test
Cryptographic
algorithm self-test

RSA-3072 with SHA-256 signature verification is performed if new FW is
downloaded.
KATs: HASH-DRBG(SHA2-256), SP 800-90A Health testing on Instantiate,
Generate and Reseed functions
Startup  and  Conditional  SP800-90B  Heath  tests:  Repetition  count  test,
Adaptive proportion test

Table 13. Conditional Self-tests

The cryptographic module enters the error state upon failure of Self-tests. All commands from the Host (General Purpose Computer
(GPC) outside the cryptographic boundary) are rejected in the error state and the cryptographic module returns an FIPS Fail Mode
(SC=0x6,  SCT=0x0)  defined  in  NVMe  specification  via  the  status  output.  Cryptographic  services  and  data  output  are  explicitly
inhibited when in the error state.

18

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

11. Life-Cycle Assurance

The  cryptographic  module  operates  in  the  Approved  mode  of  operation  by  default  once  shipped  from  the  vendor’s
manufacturing site and does not support a non-approved mode of operation. The following guidance in section 11.1 describes
the rules for secure installation and operation which the operator shall follow to operate the cryptographic module in a FIPS
140-3 security level 1 compliant manner.

11.1.  Secure Installation

•

Identify the firmware version in the device
-

Confirm the firmware version matches to the version(s) listed in this document using the NVM Express
Identify Controller command.

11.2.  Operational Description of Module

•

•

•

•

•

•

The cryptographic module employs AES-XTS exclusively for storage applications.

The cryptographic module maintains strict logical separation between data input, output, control input, status
output, and power.

The cryptographic module does not output CSPs in any form.

The cryptographic module utilizes the Approved DRBG for generating all cryptographic keys.

The module generates at a minimum 256 bits of entropy for use in key generation.

Operators must perform a power-on reset of the module after using the  “Update the firmware” service to
execute a new firmware validated by a validation authority.

19

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

12. Mitigation of Other Attacks

The cryptographic module has not been designed to mitigate any specific attacks beyond the scope of FIPS 140-3.

20

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

