Safeword3300 Platinum V2F
Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3
Level 1
Non-Proprietary
Security Policy

THALES GROUP LIMITED DISTRIBUTION - SCOPE

Document Information

Document Part Number

002-000459-001

Release Date

October 21, 2024

Trademarks, Copyrights, and Third-Party Software
© 2024 Thales. All rights reserved. Thales and the Thales logo are trademarks and service marks of
Thales and/or its subsidiaries and are registered in certain countries. All other trademarks and service
marks, whether registered or not in specific countries, are the property of their respective owners.

Disclaimer
All information herein is either public information or is the property of and owned solely by Thales
and/or its subsidiaries who shall have and keep the sole right to file patent applications or any other
kind of intellectual property protection in connection with such information.

Nothing herein shall be construed as implying or granting to you any rights, by license, grant or
otherwise, under any intellectual and/or industrial property rights of or concerning any of Thales’s
information.

This document can be copied or distributed for informational, non-commercial, internal and personal
use only provided that:

  The copyright notice below, the confidentiality and proprietary legend and this full warning notice

appear in all copies.

  This document shall not be posted on any network computer or broadcast in any media other than
on the NIST CMVP validation list and no modification of any part of this document shall be made.

Use for any other purpose is expressly prohibited and may result in severe civil and criminal liabilities.

The information contained in this document is provided “AS IS” without any warranty of any kind.
Unless otherwise expressly agreed in writing, Thales makes no warranty as to the value or accuracy of
information contained herein.

Thales hereby disclaims all warranties and conditions with regard to the information contained herein,
including all implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title and non-
infringement. In no event shall Thales be liable, whether in contract, tort or otherwise, for any indirect,
special or consequential damages or any damages whatsoever including but not limited to damages
resulting from loss of use, data, profits, revenues, or customers, arising out of or in connection with the
use or performance of information contained in this document.

Thales does not and shall not warrant that this product will be resistant to all possible attacks and shall
not incur, and disclaims, any liability in this respect. Even if each product is compliant with current
security standards in force on the date of their design, security mechanisms' resistance necessarily
evolves according to the state of the art in security and notably under the emergence of new attacks.
Under no circumstances, shall Thales be held liable for any third party actions and in particular in case
of any successful attack against systems or equipment incorporating Thales products. Thales disclaims
any liability with respect to security for direct, indirect, incidental or consequential damages that result
from any use of its products. It is further stressed that independent testing and verification by the
person using the product is particularly encouraged, especially in any application in which defective,
incorrect or insecure functioning could result in damage to persons or property, denial of service or loss
of privacy.

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001, Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales

2

Contents

CONTENTS

ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS ................................................................................. 5

REFERENCES .................................................................................................................... 6

PREFACE............................................................................................................................ 7

1  General .......................................................................................................................... 8
Security Level ................................................................................................................................ 8

1.1

2  Cryptographic Module Specification ............................................................................... 9
Module Overview ........................................................................................................................... 9
Module Description ........................................................................................................................ 9
Test Configuration ....................................................................................................................... 11
Approved Algorithms ................................................................................................................... 12
Non-Approved Algorithms ........................................................................................................... 13

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5

3  Cryptographic Module Interfaces ................................................................................. 14
Interface Overview....................................................................................................................... 14

3.1

4  Roles, Services, and Authentication ............................................................................. 16
Roles ........................................................................................................................................... 16
Authentication .............................................................................................................................. 17
Services ....................................................................................................................................... 17

4.1
4.2
4.3

5  Software/Firmware Security ......................................................................................... 20
Firmware Integrity ........................................................................................................................ 20

5.1

6  Operational Environment.............................................................................................. 21

7.1

7  Physical Security .......................................................................................................... 22
Mechanism Summary .................................................................................................................. 22
  Module Construction.................................................................................................................... 22
Module Inspection ....................................................................................................................... 22

7.2

8  Non-invasive security ................................................................................................... 23

9  SSP Management ........................................................................................................ 24
Sensitive Security Parameter ...................................................................................................... 24

9.1

10

10.1
10.2
10.3
10.4

11

11.1
11.2

Self-Tests .......................................................................................................... 27
Pre-Operational tests................................................................................................................... 27
Conditional Self-Tests ................................................................................................................. 27
Periodic Self-Tests ...................................................................................................................... 27
Self-Tests Failure ........................................................................................................................ 27

Life-cycle Assurance ......................................................................................... 28
Protecting the Safeword3300 Platinum V2F ............................................................................... 28
Zeroization ................................................................................................................................... 28

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001, Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales

3

Contents

12

13

13.1
13.2
13.3
13.4
13.5
13.6

Mitigation of Other Attacks ................................................................................ 29

Guidance ........................................................................................................... 30
Identifying the Module Firmware and Hardware Version ............................................................ 30
Approved Mode of Operation ...................................................................................................... 30
Device Usage .............................................................................................................................. 30
Status Mode ................................................................................................................................ 30
Test Mode .................................................................................................................................... 30
End of Life ................................................................................................................................... 31

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001, Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales

4

ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

Acronyms and Abbreviations

Term

CAVP

CMVP

EDC

FIPS

HMAC

HOTP

IG

Definition

Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program

Cryptographic Module Validation Program

Error Detection Code

Federal Information Processing Standard

Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code

HMAC-based One-Time Password

Implementation Guidance

ISO/IEC

International Organization for Standardization / International Electrotechnical
Commission

KAT

LCD

NIST

N/A

OATH

OCRA

OTP

RAM

RFC

SHA

SHS

SSP

TOTP

Known Answer Test

Liquid Crystal Display

National Institute of Science and Technology

Not Applicable

Open Authentication

Open Authentication Challenge-Response Algorithm

One-Time Password

Random Access Memory

Request for Comments

Secure Hash Algorithm

Secure Hash Standard

Sensitive Security Parameter

Time-Based One-Time Password

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001, Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales

5

General

REFERENCES

[FIPS 140-3] Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (Supersedes FIPS PUB 140-2), Security
Requirements for Cryptographic Modules, March 22, 2019.

[FIPS 800-140C] National Institute of Science and Technology (NIST), CMVP Approved Security Functions:
CMVP Validation Authority Updates to ISO/IEC 24759, March 2020.

[FIPS 800-140F] NIST, CMVP Approved Non-Invasive Attack Mitigation Test Metrics: CMVP Validation
Authority Updates to ISO/IEC 24759, March 2020.

[FIPS 140-3 IG] NIST, Implementation Guidance for FIPS 140-3 and the Cryptographic Module Validation
Program, October 7, 2022.

[FIPS 180-4] Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 180-4, Secure Hash Standard (SHS),
NIST, August 2015.

[FIPS 198-1] Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 198-1, The Keyed-Hash Message
Authentication Code (HMAC), July 2008.

[ISO/IEC 19790:2012] ISO/IEC 19790:2012 (Corrected 2015-12-15, IDT) Information technology – Security
techniques – Security requirements for cryptographic modules, 2015-12-15.

[ISO/IEC 24759:2017] ISO/IEC 24759:2017 (Corrected 2017-03, IDT) Information technology – Security
techniques – Test requirements for cryptographic modules, 2017-03.

[RFC 4226] HOTP: An HMAC-Based One-Time Password Algorithm, December 2005.

[RFC 6238] TOTP: Time-Based One-Time Password Algorithm, May 2011.

[RFC 6287] OCRA: OATH Challenge-Response Algorithm, June 2011.

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001, Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales

6

General

PREFACE

This document deals only with operations and capabilities of the Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic
Module in the technical terms of [FIPS 140-3].

General information on Thales products is available from the following sources:





the Thales internet site contains information on the full line of available products at
https://cpl.thalesgroup.com

technical or sales representatives of Thales can be contacted through one of the channels listed on
https://cpl.thalesgroup.com/contact-us

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001, Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales

7

General

1  General

1.1 Security Level
The Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module meets Level 1 security requirements for [FIPS 140-
3] as summarized in the table below:

Table 1-1: Security Levels

[ISO/IEC 24759:2017]
Section 6
[Number Below]

 FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security Level

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

General

Cryptographic Module Specification

Cryptographic Module Interfaces

Roles, Services, and Authentication

Software/Firmware Security

Operational Environment

Physical Security

Non-Invasive Security

Sensitive Security Parameter Management

Self-Tests

Life-Cycle Assurance

Mitigation of Other Attacks

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

N/A

1

1

1

N/A

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001, Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales

8

Cryptographic Module Specification

2  Cryptographic Module Specification

2.1 Module Overview
The Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module is a multi-chip standalone hardware security
module in the form of a token. The cryptographic module is contained in its own secure enclosure, which
provides physical resistance to tampering. The physical resistance to tampering was not assessed during
the evaluation due to the targeted security level.

The cryptographic boundary of the module is defined to encompass all components inside the secure
enclosure on the token.

The module is explicitly configured to operate in an [FIPS 140-3] approved mode of operation during
personalization performed at the factory. No additional configuration is required to be performed by the end
user. All cryptographic operations make use of approved cryptographic functions used in an approved
manner. No non-approved cryptographic algorithms, security functions or processes are available from the
module. When the user selects the ‘ON’ button, and the LCD screen is active, only FIPS-approved
cryptographic functions are available. Indication of approved status is therefore implicit for all cryptographic
services.

The module only supports a single approved mode of operation.

NOTE The Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module does not support
degraded operation as defined in [ISO/IEC 19790:2012].

The module provides a one-time password (OTP). This password is derived using the Time-Based One-
Time Password (TOTP) protocol [RFC 6238] or a challenge-response based on the HMAC-based One-Time
Password (HOTP) [RFC 4226] protocol.

2.2 Module Description
The cryptographic module as defined in [ISO/IEC 19790:2012] is a hardware module of type multi-chip
standalone.

The cryptographic boundary of the module is shown in Figure 2-1. The cryptographic boundary is defined as
the entire token.

Figure 2-1: Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module cryptographic boundary

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001, Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales

9

The following figure highlights the cryptographic boundary of the module covered by this certification:

Cryptographic Module Specification

Real Time
Clock

RAM
Memory

Main CPU

FLASH
Memory
(Program)

BATTERY

LCD

Keypad

Figure 2-2 – Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module, cryptographic boundary

The Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module is a standalone token. The cryptographic boundary
includes the hardware, firmware, battery and interfaces (Liquid Crystal Display (LCD) and keypad).

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001, Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales

10

Cryptographic Module Specification

2.3 Test Configuration
The following tested configuration is covered in this security policy:

Table 2-1: Cryptographic module tested configuration.

Model

Hardware
[Part Number and
Version]

Firmware Version

Distinguishing Features

Safeword3300
Platinum V2F

Safeword3300
Platinum V2F HW 1.0

Version CB 20005

Standalone token with internal
battery, 2 line LCD and 15-button
keypad.

Figure 2-3 shows the front and back of the Safeword3300 Platinum V2F HW 1.0 with standard markings and
Figure 2-4 shows the Safeword3300 Platinum V2F HW 1.0 with Citibank markings.

Figure 2-3:  Safeword3300 Platinum V2F HW 1.0 with standard markings

Figure 2-4: Safeword3300 Platinum V2F HW 1.0 with Citibank customization

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001, Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales

11

  Cryptographic Module Specification

2.4 Approved Algorithms
The following cryptographic library and associated Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program (CAVP) certificate is used by the cryptographic module:

  Safeword3300 Platinum Cryptographic Library (Cert A2871).

The approved algorithms implemented by the module along with accompanying details are listed in the Table 2-2 below.

Table 2-2: Approved Algorithms

CAVP
Cert

Hashing

A2871

Algorithm and
Standard

Mode / Method

Description / Key Size(s) / Key
Strength(s)

Use / Function

Algorithm: SHA.

Methods: SHA2-256.

N/A.

Standards: [FIPS
180-4]

Only used in conjunction with HMAC-SHA2-256
to:
Request an OTP
Perform OTP Challenge-Response

Message Authentication Code

A2871

Algorithm: HMAC.

Methods: HMAC-SHA2-256.

Standard: [FIPS
198-1]

Mac size: 32 bytes (256 bits).
Key size: 32 bytes (256 bits).

Request an OTP
Perform OTP Challenge-Response

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001, Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales

12

2.5 Non-Approved Algorithms
Non-Approved Algorithms are not available in the Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module.

Cryptographic Module Specification

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

13

Cryptographic Module Interfaces

3  Cryptographic Module Interfaces

3.1 Interface Overview
The following figure identifies the physical interfaces to the cryptographic module:

Figure 3-1: Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module physical interfaces

The following table describes the physical interfaces and supported data:

Table 3-1: Ports and Interfaces

Physical Port

Logical Interface   Data that passes over the port/interface

Keypad

Control Input

The keypad supports user interaction with the module.

Data Input

LCD

Data Output

Control Output

Status Output

On button:
The device will enter sleep mode after a few seconds of
inactivity in order to save power. Pressing the ‘ON’ button
when the device is in sleep mode will put the device in
active mode. Pressing the ‘ON’ button when the device is in
active mode will cause it to enter sleep mode.
The device is always on and there is no means to turn it off.

Digits (0-9):

The digit buttons are used to access control features to
request display of the hardware and firmware version.

For data input, the input characters include digits (0-9).
These are entered to request a One-Time Password or
initiate a challenge-response.

For data output, the display shows up to 8 characters on a
single line. The displayed characters include digits (0-9) and
letters (A-Z).

The interface displays the One-Time Password or
challenge-response (data output) as well as hardware and
firmware version information (control output).

Only approved cryptographic functions are permitted.
Therefore, the display implicitly indicates the approved
function status.

For Control and Status Output, the display shows two lines,
with the data type displayed on the first line and the data on
the second line. The displayed characters include digits (0-
9) and letters (A-Z).

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

14

Cryptographic Module Interfaces

Physical Port

Logical Interface   Data that passes over the port/interface

Personalization Pins (back
of the token)

N/A

These are only used during manufacture and are disabled
before delivery to the client. The pins neither provide nor
accept data.

Power

N/A

Power is provided by an internal battery. The battery is not
user replaceable. No interface is available.

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

15

Roles, Services, and Authentication

4  Roles, Services, and Authentication

4.1 Roles
The Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module supports the following role:

Table 4-1: Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module Roles

Role

Principal Duties

Crypto Officer

A single role is provided as the operator of the device. The Crypto
Officer can request an OTP, change the owner approval code and view
version information.

The mapping of the cryptographic module’s roles to services can be found in the table below:

Table 4-2: Roles, Services, Input and Output

Service

Service Input

Service Output

Role

Management

Crypto Officer

Crypto Officer

Change owner approval
code

Show module firmware
version

Crypto Officer

Show module hardware
version

Crypto Officer

Perform HMAC-SHA2-256
KAT

Crypto Officer

Perform firmware
integrity check

Crypto Officer

Display Time

Crypto Officer

Display Counter

Old code, new code

The code is changed

Long press on ‘0’ key,
short press on ‘1’, ‘4’,
‘5’, ‘8’, and ‘1’.

Long press on ‘0’ key

Long press on ’0’ key,
short press on ‘1’, ‘4’,
‘5’, ‘8’, and ‘7’.

Long press on ’0’ key,
short press on ‘1’, ‘4’,
‘5’, ‘8’, and ‘6’.

Long press on ‘0’ key,
short press on ‘1’, ‘4’,
‘5’, ‘8’, and ‘2’.

Long press on ’0’ key,
short press on ‘Entr’ to
toggle to counter.

Firmware version

Hardware version of
the printed circuit
board

Success or Error

Success or Error

Displays universal time
in seconds (first line)
and the user friendly
date/time (second
line).

Counter value

Crypto Officer

Remove battery

Remove battery

Zeroization of the SSP

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

16

Roles, Services, and Authentication

Role

OTP

Service

Service Input

Service Output

Crypto Officer

Request an OTP

Enter owner approval
code, select function 1-
8

OTP

Crypto Officer

Perform OTP Challenge-
Response

Enter owner approval
code, select function 9

Response

NOTE Only approved cryptographic functions are supported by the Safeword3300
Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module. The approved security service indicator is
implicitly provided by the successful completion of a security service listed in Table 4-3.

NOTE Procedural methods are used to perform zeroization on the Safeword3300
Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module. Zeroization is performed by breaking open the
device and removing the battery. Depletion of the battery will also cause the SSPs to be
zeroized.

4.2 Authentication
[ISO/IEC 24759:2017] Section 6.4.4, Authentication is not claimed for this device. The operator implicitly
assumes the role of Crypto Officer by virtue of physical possession of the device.

4.3 Services
All services listed in the table below can be accessed in approved mode and when in this mode exclusively
use the security functions listed in Table 2-2.

As notes on the content of Table 4-3:



In the “Approved Security Functions” column:

•

‘Algorithms’ maps the target service to cryptography from standards referenced in FIPS 800-140C
with corresponding CAVP certificates from Table 2-2;



In the “Access Rights to Keys and/or SSPs” column:

•  G = Generate: The module generates or derives the SSP;

•  R = Read: The SSP is read from the module (e.g. the SSP is output);

•  W = Write: The SSP is updated, imported, or written to the module;

•  E = Execute: The module uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation; and

•  Z = Zeroize: The module zeroizes the SSP.

For a complete description of the SSP referenced in the “Keys / SSP” column, see Table 9-1.

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

17

Table 4-3: Approved Services

Service

Description

Approved Security
Functions

Key and/or
SSPs

Roles

Access Rights to Keys
and/or SSPs

Roles, Services, and Authentication

Show module
firmware version

Show module
hardware version

Request a OTP Note 1

This service is used to
retrieve the firmware
version of the module.

This service is used to
retrieve the hardware
version of the printed
circuit board.

This service is used to
request an OTP.

Perform OTP
Challenge-
ResponseNote 1

This service is used to
perform an OTP
challenge-response.

Change owner
approval code

Perform firmware
integrity check

Perform HMAC-
SHA2-256 KAT

This service is used to
change the owner
approval codeNote 2.

This service allows the
operator to initiate the
firmware integrity test.

This service allows the
operator to initiate the
HMAC KAT self-test.

Algorithms: N/A

None

Crypto Officer

None

Algorithms: N/A

None

Crypto Officer

None

Algorithms: HMAC (Cert
A2871) – HMAC-SHA2-
256
SHA (Cert A2871) – SHA2-
256

Algorithms: HMAC (Cert
A2871) – HMAC-SHA2-
256
SHA (Cert A2871) – SHA2-
256

HMAC key
Time

Crypto Officer

E: HMAC Key, Time

HMAC key
Counter

Crypto Officer

E: HMAC Key, Counter
W: Counter

Algorithms: N/A

None

Crypto Officer

None

Algorithms: N/A

None

Crypto Officer

None

Algorithms: N/A

None

Crypto Officer

None

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

18

Service

Description

Approved Security
Functions

Key and/or
SSPs

Roles

Access Rights to Keys
and/or SSPs

Display Time

Display Counter

This service allows the
operator to display the
device time.

This service allows the
operator to display the
device’s counter.

Algorithms: N/A

Time

Crypto Officer

R: Time

Algorithms: N/A

Counter

Crypto Officer

R: Counter

Roles, Services, and Authentication

Note 1:

In the case where an operator enters an incorrect owner approval code, the device will use the key and random data to create a fake OTP or
Challenge-Response. After the third incorrect owner approval code, the device will display the words ‘BAD PIN’. This is displayed for n minutes, where
n = (number of incorrect codes -2), and the maximum value of n = 255. It should be noted that this action is not compliant with the protocols in the
RFCs referenced in Table 9-1.

Note 2   No security claims are made for authentication using the owner approval code; therefore, no SSPs are mapped to this service.

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

19

Software/Firmware Security

5  Software/Firmware Security

5.1 Firmware Integrity

The Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module’s firmware integrity is verified using an Error
Detection Code (EDC). This check is performed on all firmware components within the device.

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

20

Operational Environment

6 Operational Environment

The module supports a non-modifiable operating environment as defined in [ISO/IEC 19790:2012]. The
device provides no means to load firmware or reconfiguration the device following the completion of the
manufacturing process.

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

21

Physical Security

7 Physical Security

7.1 Mechanism Summary

 Module Construction

The token includes a production grade molded plastic enclosure with no removable parts. A label on the
back of the device hides four pins. These pins are used during production and are disabled following
personalization.

7.2 Module Inspection
The following routine inspections are recommended.

Table 7-1: Physical Security Inspection Guidelines

Physical Security
Mechanism

Recommended Frequency of
Inspection/Test

Inspection/Test Guidance
Details

Physical inspection of
the device.

On receipt of the token;

At any point following any un-authorized
access to the token; and

Following any extended periods of
unattended storage.

Verify that the external cover is
intact; and

All seams, the key pad and the
LCD screen are well aligned
within the device.

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

22

Non-invasive security

8 Non-invasive security

N/A: Section 6.8, Non-invasive security is Non Applicable as there are currently no requirement in FIPS 800-
140F.

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

23

SSP Management

9 SSP Management

9.1 Sensitive Security Parameter
The following table lists Sensitive Security Parameters (SSP) used to perform approved security function
supported by the cryptographic module.

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

24

SSP Management

Table 9-1: SSPs

Key / SSP Name / Type

Strength

CSPs

Security
Function
and Cert
Number

Import/ Export

Storage

Zeroization

Usage

256-bit HMAC key
Function 1

256-bits

HMAC (Cert
A2871).

Installed during
personalization

Working RAM
in plaintext

Zeroized when battery
is depleted or removed.

256-bit HMAC key
Function 2

256-bits

HMAC (Cert
A2871).

Installed during
personalization

Working RAM
in plaintext

Zeroized when battery
is depleted or removed.

256-bit HMAC key
Function 3

256-bits

HMAC (Cert
A2871).

Installed during
personalization

Working RAM
in plaintext

Zeroized when battery
is depleted or removed.

256-bit HMAC key
Function 4

256-bits

HMAC (Cert
A2871).

Installed during
personalization

Working RAM
in plaintext

Zeroized when battery
is depleted or removed.

256-bit HMAC key
Function 5

256-bits

HMAC (Cert
A2871).

Installed during
personalization

Working RAM
in plaintext

Zeroized when battery
is depleted or removed.

256-bit HMAC key
Function 6

256-bits

HMAC (Cert
A2871).

Installed during
personalization

Working RAM
in plaintext

Zeroized when battery
is depleted or removed.

256-bit HMAC key
Function 7

256-bits

HMAC (Cert
A2871).

Installed during
personalization

Working RAM
in plaintext

Zeroized when battery
is depleted or removed.

256-bit HMAC key
Function 8

256-bits

HMAC (Cert
A2871).

Installed during
personalization

Working RAM
in plaintext

Zeroized when battery
is depleted or removed.

256-bit HMAC key
Function 9

256-bits

HMAC (Cert
A2871).

Installed during
personalization

Working RAM
in plaintext

Zeroized when battery
is depleted or removed.

A 256-bit key used to create an HMAC, which
is then used to create an OTP in accordance
with [RFC 6238].
A 256-bit key used to create an HMAC, which
is then used to create an OTP in accordance
with [RFC 6238].
A 256-bit key used to create an HMAC, which
is then used to create an OTP in accordance
with [RFC 6238].
A 256-bit key used to create an HMAC, which
is then used to create an OTP in accordance
with [RFC 6238].
A 256-bit key used to create an HMAC, which
is then used to create an OTP in accordance
with [RFC 6238].
A 256-bit key used to create an HMAC, which
is then used to create an OTP in accordance
with [RFC 6238].
A 256-bit key used to create an HMAC, which
is then used to create an OTP in accordance
with [RFC 6238].
A 256-bit key used to create an HMAC, which
is then used to create an OTP in accordance
with [RFC 6238].
A 256-bit key used to create an HMAC, which
is then used to perform a challenge-response
in accordance with [RFC 6287] and [RFC
4226].

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

25

SSP Management

Key / SSP Name / Type

Strength

PSPs

Security
Function
and Cert
Number

Counter

N/A

N/A

Time

N/A

N/A

Import/ Export

Storage

Zeroization

Usage

Starts at zero.
Incremented in
the CPU,
plaintext output
using service
‘Display
Counter’.
Set during
personalization.
Plaintext output
using service
‘Display Time’.

Stored in
plaintext in
RAM

Zeroized when battery
is depleted or removed.

The counter is used in generation of the
challenge –response in accordance with RFC
6287 and RFC 4226.

Stored in
plaintext in
RAM

Zeroized when battery
is depleted or removed.

Time is used in generation of the OTP in
accordance with RFC 6238.

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

26

Self-Tests

10  Self-Tests

10.1 Pre-Operational tests
The module performs the pre-operational self-test to confirm the firmware integrity. This test is run at power-
up following personalization.

While the module is running the self-test, all interfaces are disabled until the test reaches successful
completion. If the test fails, the module halts, and data output is inhibited.

Table 10-1: Pre-operational self-test

Test

Operations Performed

Indicator

Firmware Integrity
Test

EDC based on a 16-bit Cyclical Redundancy Check
(CRC) calculated on the full code present on the
module

Module halt on failure

10.2  Conditional Self-Tests
The module performs a conditional self-test to confirm the proper operation of the cryptographic functions.

While the module is running this self-test, all interfaces are disabled until the test reaches successful
completion. If the test fails, the module halts, and data output is inhibited. The KAT is run following the pre-
operational firmware integrity test.

Table 10-2: Conditional self-test

Test

Operations Performed

Indicator

HMAC-SHA2-256 KAT

MAC Generate

Module halt on failure

10.3  Periodic Self-Tests
A user may initiate the self-tests on demand for periodic testing of the module. Using the test mode options,
the user may initiate the Firmware Integrity Test or the HMAC-SHA2-256 KAT at any time.

10.4  Self-Tests Failure
If a pre-operational or periodic self-test fails, the module will display “BLOCKED” on the screen for a few
seconds and then enter sleep mode. The operator may then awaken the device; however, it will display
“BLOCKED” on the screen for a few seconds and return to sleep mode.

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

27

Life-cycle Assurance

11  Life-cycle Assurance

11.1 Protecting the Safeword3300 Platinum V2F
In order to maintain security throughout the life of the token, end users MUST:

˃  securely store the token at all times; and

˃  always inspect the token prior to use to check for any signs of possible tamper.

Failure of the end user to comply with these requirements could lead to subsequent compromise or malicious
misuse of the token.

11.2  Zeroization
Zeroization of the SSPs is performed by breaking open the token and removing the battery. SSPs are
exclusively stored in volatile RAM. Removing the battery results in irrecoverable loss of all SSPs.

The operator can verify that the procedure is successful by reattaching the battery and attempting to access
the SSPs. It is most likely that the token is beyond repair after battery removal and only a blank screen will
appear. In the unlikely event that the battery is reattached successfully and the device powers up, the
screen will display ‘NO STATE’ indicating that there are no SSPs present, and the zeroization has been
successful.

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

28

Mitigation of Other Attacks

12  Mitigation of Other Attacks

No assured mitigations to ‘other attacks’ are covered in this security policy.

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

29

Guidance

13  Guidance

The device is always on, but enters a low power consumption mode when not in use. The user must press
the ‘ON’ button to exit this mode to make use of any service.

13.1 Identifying the Module Firmware and Hardware Version
Operators are required to verify the module firmware and hardware version prior to first use to ensure that a
FIPS-validated cryptographic module is being used in the token.

A long press on the ‘0’ key will display the hardware version. The operator must then put the device into
Test Mode by pressing the ‘1’, ‘4’, ‘5’ and ‘8’ buttons in sequence, and then ‘1’ to display the firmware
version.

13.2 Approved Mode of Operation
The Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module has a single mode of operation. This is the
approved mode of operation.

13.3 Device Usage
The process to generate an OTP with the Platinum V2 token is as follows:

•  The operator of the device initiates the process by pressing the ‘On’ button.

•  The “Enter PIN” message is displayed of the screen. The operator enters the owner approval code
and it is verified by the device. Note that this is not a cryptographic function claimed for this module.

•  The operator must choose the function to execute by entering a number (1-9) after the message

‘HOST’ is displayed.

•  Based on the number entered, the module selects the key to be used to generate the OTP. Entering
‘9’ selects the OTP challenge-response service, which prompts the operator to enter a challenge
before generating the OTP.

•  The OTP is displayed on the screen.

13.4 Status Mode
When in Status Mode, the device shows module information such as the module name. The operator
requests Status Mode through a long press on the ‘0’ key.

13.5 Test Mode
From Status Mode, the operator must press the ‘1’, ‘4’, ‘5’ and ‘8’ buttons in sequence to enter Test Mode.
The operator can then press ‘1’ to display the module firmware version.

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

30

13.6 End of Life
When the device has reached the end of its life, the operator returns the device to the provider for secure
destruction. The provider securely destroys the device by breaking open the outer case and removing the
battery.

Guidance

Safeword3300 Platinum V2F Cryptographic Module - LEVEL 1 NON-PROPRIETARY SECURITY POLICY
002-000459-001 Rev. J, October 21, 2024, Copyright © 2024 Thales.

31

