F5, Inc.

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

Module Version: 1.5.1

FIPS Security Level 2

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Document Version 1.2

Last update: November 2024

Prepared by:

atsec information security corporation

4516 Seton Center Parkway, Suite 250

Austin, TX 78759

www.atsec.com

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Table of Contents

7.1

6.1

5.1
5.2
5.3

4.1
4.2
4.3

1  General .............................................................................................................. 5
2  Cryptographic Module Specification ..................................................................... 6
Description ........................................................................................................................ 6
2.1
2.2
Operating Environments .................................................................................................... 6
2.3  Modes of Operation ........................................................................................................... 6
Hardware Platform Photographs ........................................................................................ 9
2.4
Block Diagram and Cryptographic Boundary Descriptions .............................................. 11
2.5
3  Cryptographic Module Interfaces ....................................................................... 12
4  Roles, Services, and Authentication ................................................................... 13
Roles ................................................................................................................................ 13
Authentication ................................................................................................................. 14
Services ........................................................................................................................... 15
5  Software/Firmware security ............................................................................... 21
Integrity Techniques ........................................................................................................ 21
On-Demand Integrity Test ............................................................................................... 21
Executable Code .............................................................................................................. 21
6  Operational Environment ................................................................................... 22
Applicability ..................................................................................................................... 22
7  Physical Security ............................................................................................... 23
Tamper Label Placement ................................................................................................. 23
8  Non-invasive Security ........................................................................................ 26
9  Sensitive Security Parameter Management ........................................................ 27
Random Bit Generation - Entropy Source ........................................................................ 31
SSP Generation ................................................................................................................ 31
SSP Establishment ........................................................................................................... 32
SSP Entry / Output ........................................................................................................... 32
SSP Storage ..................................................................................................................... 32
SSP Zeroization ............................................................................................................... 33
10  Self-tests .......................................................................................................... 34
10.1  Pre-Operational Self-Tests ............................................................................................... 34
Pre-operational Software/Firmware Integrity Test .................................................. 34
10.2  Conditional Self-Tests ...................................................................................................... 34
Conditional Cryptographic Algorithm Tests ............................................................ 34
Conditional Pairwise Consistency Test ................................................................... 35
On-Demand Self-Test ............................................................................................. 35
10.3  Error States ..................................................................................................................... 35
11  Life-cycle assurance .......................................................................................... 36
11.1  Delivery and Operation .................................................................................................... 36
11.2  Crypto Officer Guidance .................................................................................................. 36
Installing Tamper Evident Labels ............................................................................ 36
Installing F5OS ....................................................................................................... 36
Additional Guidance ............................................................................................... 37

9.1
9.2
9.3
9.4
9.5
9.6

10.2.1
10.2.2
10.2.3

11.2.1
11.2.2
11.2.3

10.1.1

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

2 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

11.3  User Guidance ................................................................................................................. 37
AES GCM IV ............................................................................................................ 37
RSA SigGen/SigVer ................................................................................................. 38
Legacy Algorithms .................................................................................................. 38
12  Mitigation of other attacks ................................................................................ 39

11.3.1
11.3.2
11.3.3

Figure 1 - r4800 isometric view ...................................................................................................... 10
Figure 2 - r5900 front view ............................................................................................................. 10
Figure 3 - r5920-DF front view ........................................................................................................ 10
Figure 4 – r10900, r10920-DF front view (same chassis for the test platforms) ............................. 11
Figure 5 - Block Diagram ................................................................................................................ 11
Figure 6 - Tamper labels on r4800 (5 of 5 tamper labels) .............................................................. 24
Figure 7 – Tamper labels on r5900 (4 of 4 tamper labels) .............................................................. 24
Figure 8 - Tamper labels on r5920-DF ............................................................................................ 25
Figure 9 – Tamper labels on r10900, r10920-DF ............................................................................. 25

Table 1 - Security Levels ................................................................................................................... 5
Table 2 - Tested Operational Environments ...................................................................................... 6
Table 3 - Approved Algorithms ......................................................................................................... 8
Table 4 - Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation ...................... 9
Table 5 - Ports and Interfaces ......................................................................................................... 12
Table 6 - Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output .................................................................. 14
Table 7 - Roles and Authentication ................................................................................................. 15
Table 8 - Approved Services ........................................................................................................... 19
Table 9 - Non-Approved Services .................................................................................................... 20
Table 10 - Physical Security Inspection Guidelines ......................................................................... 23
Table 11 – Number of Tamper Evident Labels per hardware appliance .......................................... 23
Table 12 - SSPs ............................................................................................................................... 31
Table 13 - Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification ...................................... 31
Table 14 – Conditional Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Tests ............................................................ 35
Table 15 - Error States .................................................................................................................... 35

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

3 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Copyrights and Trademarks

F5®, BIG-IP® are registered trademarks of F5, Inc.

Intel®, Atom® and Xeon® are registered trademarks of Intel Corporation.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

4 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

1  General

This document is the non-proprietary FIPS 140-3 Security Policy for the F5OS-A
Cryptographic Module with firmware version 1.5.1. The document contains the security
rules under which the module must operate and describes how this module meets the
requirements as specified in FIPS PUB 140-3 (Federal Information Processing Standards
Publication 140-3) for a Security Level 2 module.

This document provides all tables and diagrams (when applicable) required by NIST SP
800-140B.

ISO/IEC 24759 Section
6. [Number Below]

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security
Level

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

General

Cryptographic Module Specification

Cryptographic Module Interfaces

Roles, Services, and Authentication

Software/Firmware Security

Operational Environment

Physical Security

Non-invasive Security

Sensitive Security Parameter Management

Self-tests

Life-cycle Assurance

Mitigation of Other Attacks

2

2

2

2

2

N/A

2

N/A

2

2

2

N/A

Table 1 - Security Levels

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

5 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

2  Cryptographic Module Specification

2.1  Description

Purpose and Use: The F5OS-A Cryptographic Module (hereafter referred to as “the
module”) is a microservices-based, proprietary platform layer that provides an interface
between the BIG-IP ADC and the rSeries hardware.

Module Type: Firmware

Module Embodiment: Multi Chip Standalone

2.2  Operating Environments

Operating system  Hardware Platform

Processors

PAA/ Acceleration

F5OS-A 1.5.1

r4800

Intel® Atom® P5342 Snow Ridge NS

with and without PAA

F5OS-A 1.5.1

r5900

Intel® Xeon® Silver 4314 Ice Lake-SP   with and without PAA

F5OS-A 1.5.1

r5920-DF

Intel® Xeon® Silver 4314 Ice Lake-SP  with and without PAA

F5OS-A 1.5.1

r10900

Intel® Xeon® Gold 6312U Ice Lake-SP   with and without PAA

F5OS-A 1.5.1

r10920-DF

Intel® Xeon® Gold 6312U Ice Lake-SP  with and without PAA

Table 2 - Tested Operational Environments

2.3  Modes of Operation

The module supports two modes of operation:

•

•

In Approved mode of operation only approved or vendor affirmed security functions can be
used.

In non-Approved mode of operation only non-approved security functions can be used.

The module enters the approved mode after pre-operational self-tests and CASTs
succeed. The module automatically switches between the approved and non-approved
modes depending on the services requested by the operator. The status indicator of the
mode of operation is equivalent to the indicator of the service that was requested. SSPs
used or stored in the Approved mode are not used in the non-Approved mode, and vice
versa.

In the Approved Mode, the cryptographic module provides the following cryptographic
algorithms whose CAVP certificates are in Table 3 below. Not all the ACVP tested
capabilities are used by the module in approved mode of operation.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

6 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

CAVP Cert  Algorithm and

Mode / Method

Standard

Description / Key Size(s)/
Key Strength(s)

Use / Function

AES
[FIPS 197, SP800-
38A,
SP800-38C, SP800
38D]

KTS (AES)
[FIPS 197, SP800-
38D, SP800- 38F]

ECB, CBC, GCM, CTR

128 / 192 / 256-bit keys
with key strengths from
128 to 256 bits

Encryption and
Decryption

Key Wrapping /
Unwrapping

GCM

AES-CBC key and
HMAC-SHA-1, HMAC-
SHA2-256, or HMAC-
SHA2-384

128 / 256-bit AES keys
with key strengths 128 or
256 bits

128 / 256-bit AES and
HMAC keys with key
strengths 128 or 256 bits

AES-CBC/ AES-CTR keys
and HMAC-SHA-1,
HMAC-SHA2-256

128 / 256-bit AES and
HMAC keys with key
strengths from 128 or 256
bits

A3896,
A5260

A3896,
A5260

A3896,
A5260

A3896,
A5260

A3896,
A5260

AES
[FIPS 197, SP800-
38B, SP800 38D]

GMAC

A3896,
A5260

CTR_DRBG [SP800-
90Ar1]

AES 256 in CTR mode,
with / without
derivation function,
prediction resistance
disabled / enabled

A3896,
A5260

RSA
[FIPS 186-4]

B.3.3 Random Probable
Primes

PKCS#1v1.5: SHA2-
256, SHA2-384

PKCS#1v1.5: SHA2-
256, SHA2-384

128 / 192 / 256-bit AES
keys with key strengths
from 128 and 256 bits

MAC Generation and
Verification

Entropy input string
(256-bits), V (128-bits) and
key (256-bits) values

Random Number
Generation

2048, 3072 and 4096-bit
keys with key strengths
112 to 150-bits

2048, 3072 and 4096-bit
keys with key strengths
112 to 150-bits

2048, 3072 and 4096-bit
keys with key strengths
112 to 150-bits

RSA key generation

RSA signature
generation

RSA signature
verification

ECDSA key pair
generation /
verification

ECDSA signature
generation and
verification

A3896,
A5260

ECDSA
[FIPS 186-4]

B.4.2 Testing
Candidates

P-256 and P-384 with key
strengths 128 and 192-bits

SHA2-256, SHA2-384

P-256 and P-384 with key
strengths 128 and 192-bits

A3896,
A5260

SHS
[FIPS180-4]

A3896,
A5260

HMAC
[FIPS 198-1]

SHA-1
SHA2-256
SHA2-384

N/A

Message digest

HMAC-SHA-1
HMAC-SHA2-256
HMAC-SHA2-384

112 bits to 1024-bits with
key strengths 112 to 256-
bits

Message
authentication

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

7 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

CAVP Cert  Algorithm and

Mode / Method

Standard

Description / Key Size(s)/
Key Strength(s)

Use / Function

A3896,
A5260

KAS-ECC-SSC
[SP800-56Ar3]

Ephemeral Unified:
KAS Role: initiator,
responder

P-256, P-384 with key
strengths 128 and 192-bits

Shared Secret
Computation used in
Key Agreement
Scheme (KAS) IG D.F
scenario 2 (path 2)

A3896,
A5260

A3896,
A5260

(vendor
affirmed)

SSH KDF1 (CVL)
[SP800-135]

AES-128, AES-256 with
SHA2-256, SHA2-384

256-bit keys with 256-bits
key strength

Key derivation

TLS KDF1 (CVL)
[SP800-135, RFC
7627]

CKG
[SP800-133r2]
CTR_DRBG [SP800-
90Ar1]
KAS-ECC-SSC
[SP800-56Ar3]
RSA, ECDSA [FIPS
186-4]

TLS v1.2

256-bits

Key derivation

DRBG produces the
random numbers for
key generation of RSA,
ECDSA and EC Diffie-
Hellman

RSA Sizes: 2048, 3072 and
4096-bits key with 112 and
150-bits key strength
ECDSA and EC Diffie-
Hellman: P-256 and P-384
with 128 and 192-bits key
strength

Key generation

Table 3 - Approved Algorithms

The module does not implement any non-approved algorithms allowed in the approved
mode of operation with or without security claimed.

The following table lists the non-approved algorithms not allowed in approved mode
along with their usage.

Algorithm/ Functions

Use/Function

Symmetric Encryption and Decryption

AES modes: CCM,
CFB, OFB, XTS and
KW modes;
DES;
RC4;
Triple-DES;
SM2, SM4

RSA

Asymmetric Encryption and Decryption

RSA Key generation

with modulus size other than 2048, 3072 and 4096-bits;

DSA

domain parameter generation,
domain parameter verification,
Key pair generation

DSA digital signature

Signature generation and verification using any key size

1 No parts of the TLS / SSH protocols except the KDF has been reviewed or tested by the CAVP and
CMVP

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

8 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Algorithm/ Functions

Use/Function

EdDSA digital
signature

ECDSA Key
generation/
verification

Safe Primes Key
generation/verificatio
n

RSA digital signature

ECDSA digital
signature

SHA2-224
SHA2-512
SM3
MD5

HMAC-SHA2-224
HMAC-SHA2-512
AES-CMAC
Triple-DES

Diffie-Hellman
EC Diffie-Hellman

Signature generation and verification using Ed25519

With curves other than P-256 and P-384

Key generation for Diffie-Hellman using any safe prime groups

- Signature Generation: PKCS#1 v1.5 using 2048, 3072 or 4096-bits modulus
with SHA-1, SHA2-224, SHA2-512
- Signature Verification PKCS#1 v1.5 using 2048, 3072 or 4096-bits modulus with
SHA-1, SHA2-224, SHA2-512
- Signature Generation and Verification using PKCS #1 v1.5 scheme with
modulus other than 2048, 3072 or 4096 bits, for all SHA sizes
- Signature Generation PSS using 2048, 3072 or 4096-bits modulus
- Signature Verification PSS using 2048, 3072 or 4096-bits modulus
- Signature Generation and Verification using Probabilistic Signature Scheme
(PSS) specified in ANSI X9.31 standard
- modulus sizes other than 2048, 3072 and 4096-bits

- Digital Signature Generation and Verification using  curves other than P-256
and P-384, all SHA sizes
- Digital Signature Generation using curves P-256 and P-384 with SHA-1, SHA2-
224, SHA2-512, SHA3
- Digital Signature Verification using curves P-256 and P-384 with SHA2-224,
SHA2-512, SHA3

Message Digest

Message Authentication

Key Agreement Scheme:

- All Diffie-Hellman Groups
- EC Diffie-Hellman using curves other than P-256 and P-384
- EC Diffie-Hellman using curves P-256 and P-384 Static Unified and
OnePassDh schemes

TLS KDF
SNMP KDF,
IKEv1, IKEv2 KDF

Key Derivation function in the context of:

- TLS using MD5 / SHA-1 / SHA2-224 / SHA2-512 / SHA3
- SNMP using any SHA variant
- IKE using any SHA variant

Table 4 - Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation

2.4  Hardware Platform Photographs

Figures below show the various platforms on which the module was tested.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

9 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Figure 1 - r4800 isometric view

Figure 2 - r5900 front view

Figure 3 - r5920-DF front view

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

10 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Figure 4 – r10900, r10920-DF front view (same chassis for the test platforms)

2.5  Block Diagram and Cryptographic Boundary Descriptions

The module cryptographic boundary is defined by the red dotted line in Figure 5. The
TOEPP is defined by the tested platforms listed in Table 2 and delineated by the black
rectangle in Figure 5. Figure 5 also depicts the flow of status output (SO), control input
(CI), data input (DI) and data output (DO) interfaces.

Figure 5 - Block Diagram

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

11 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

3  Cryptographic Module Interfaces

The logical interfaces are the commands through which users of the module request
services. There are no external input or output devices to the module can be used for
data input, data output, status output or control input.

For the purpose of the FIPS 140-3 validation, the physical ports are interpreted to be the
physical ports of the hardware platform on which it runs.

Physical port

Logical Interface2  Data that passes over port/interface

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Data Input

TLS/SSH protocol input messages
Configuration commands for interface management

Data Output

TLS/SSH protocol output messages
Status log

Control Input

API which control system state (e.g. reset system, power-off system).

Status Output

API which provides system status information.

Power interface  Power Input

Power

Table 5 - Ports and Interfaces

2 The module does not implement Control Output interface.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

12 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

4  Roles, Services, and Authentication

4.1  Roles

The module supports one CO role and one User role. Maintenance role is not supported.
The FIPS 140-3 roles are defined below and corresponding service with input and output
are described in Table 6.

•  Crypto Officer (CO) role: The Crypto Officer is represented by the administrator/root of the
module. This entity performs module installation and initialization. This role has full access
to the system and can create, delete, and manage other User roles on the system. At
initialization, the CO is the only available role and only the CO can create the user roles.

•  The FIPS140-3 User role is mapped to multiple module roles: Operator, Resource Admin

and, Tenant-console.

The list of services available to the CO and user roles are defined in Table 8 and Table 9.

Module Role

Service

Input

Output

FIPS
140-3
Role

CO
User

CO

CO

CO

CO
User

CO

CO

CO
User

CO
User
CO
User
CO
User
CO
User
CO
User
CO
User

Administrator
Resource Admin
Operator
Administrator

CO

Administrator

List users

None

List of user accounts

Create
additional
User
Modify
existing Users

Username / password  Confirmation of account creation

Username /
modification (new
username, role,
password expiry
date/tally count)
Username

Confirmation of account
modification

Confirmation of deletion

Administrator

Delete User

Administrator

Unlock User

Username

Confirmation of unlock

Administrator
Resource Admin
Operator
Administrator

Administrator

Administrator
Resource Admin

Administrator
Resource Admin
Administrator
Resource Admin
Administrator
Resource Admin
Administrator
Resource Admin
Administrator
Resource Admin
Administrator
Resource Admin

Update own
password

Update others
password
Configure
password
policy
Create TLS
certificate

Create TLS
Key
Delete TLS
Certificate/Key
List Certificate

List private
keys
View System
Audit Log
Configure SSH
access options

Own password

Confirmation of update of
password

Username / password  Confirmation of update

New password policy

Confirmation of configuration
change

Certificate
identification
information
Key identification
information
Key identification
information
List of certificates to
display
List of private keys to
display
N/A

Confirmation of certificate
creation

Confirmation of key creation

Confirmation of key deletion

Certificate expiration information

List of private keys

Display of system audit logs

SSH access / IP
address list

Confirmation of configuration of
SSH access options

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

13 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Module Role

Service

Input

Output

FIPS
140-3
Role

CO

Administrator

CO
User

User

Administrator
Resource Admin

Tenant-console

User

Tenant-console

CO

Administrator

CO

Administrator

CO
User

CO
User

CO
User

CO
User

CO
User

CO
User

CO
User

CO
User

CO
User

Administrator
Resource Admin
Operator

Administrator
Resource Admin
Operator
Administrator
Resource Admin
Operator
Administrator
Resource Admin
Operator
Administrator
Resource Admin
Operator
Administrator
Resource Admin
Operator
Administrator
Resource Admin
Operator

Administrator
Resource Admin
Operator
Administrator
Resource Admin
Operator

Configure SSH
user
configuration
Create a
tenant

Connecting to
tenant-console
via SSH

Closing the
tenant-console
SSH session
Reboot
System
Secure Erase

SSH session
service

Closing SSH
Session

SSH ECDSA key pair
(public)

Confirmation of configuration of
SSH user configuration

password / tenant
console role

Confirmation of the tenant-
console role

F5 rSeries platform
management address
/ tenant- console /
password
N/A

Confirmation of Access to the
tenant-console remotely over SSH

Confirmation of tenant-console
SSH session closure

N/A

Confirmation of system reboot

Selection option

User / address /
password / algorithms
/ key sizes/ primary
secret
N/A

Confirmation of full system
zeroization

Confirmation of SSH session
establishment

Confirmation of SSH session
closure

TLS session
service

Address / algorithms/
keys

Confirmation of establishment of
TLS session

Closing TLS
session

N/A

Show version

None

Confirmation of TLS session
closure

Version information, and module
name

Show license

None

FIPS license information

Show status

None

Status of the specific service
passed in the show status
command

Self- test

None

Pass/ fail results of self-tests

Show tenant

None

Lists tenant information

Table 6 - Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

4.2  Authentication

The module supports role-based authentication. The module supports concurrent
operators belonging to different roles (one CO role and one User role) which create
different authenticated sessions, while achieving the separation between the concurrent
operators.

Two interfaces are used to access the module:

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

14 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

•

CLI: The module offers a CLI which is accessed remotely using the SSHv2 secured
session over the Ethernet connection.

•  Web Utility Interface (WebUI): The Web interface consists of HTTPS over TLS-enabled
web browser which provides a graphical interface for system management tools.

The CO role and User role can access the module through Command Line Interface (CLI)
or Web Interface. However, the CO can restrict User role access to have the User
accessing through Web Interface only.

The module does not maintain authenticated sessions upon power cycling. Power-cycling
the system requires the authentication credentials to be re-entered. When entering
password authentication data through the WebUI, any character entered will be
obfuscated (i.e. replace the character entered with a dot on the entry box). When
entering password authentication data through the CLI, the module does not display any
character entered by the operator in stdin (e.g. keyboard).

The CO and User roles are selected via the authentication credentials that are entered.

Table 7 lists the required role-based authentication method for the Crypto Office role and
the User role depending upon which interface is being used.

Role

Crypto
Officer
User

Authentication
Method

role-based
authentication
with Password
(CLI or WebUI)

Crypto
Officer
User

role-based
authentication
with SSH ECDSA
key-pair (CLI
only)

Authentication Strength

The password must consist of a minimum of 8 characters with at least one
from each of the three-character classes. Character classes are defined as:
digits (0-9), ASCII lowercase letters (a-z), ASCII uppercase letters (A-Z)
Assuming a worst-case scenario where the password contains six numerical
digits, one ASCII lowercase letter and one ASCII uppercase letter. The
probability of guessing every character successfully is (1/10)^6 * (1/26)^1
* (1/26)^1 = 1/676,000,000. Note: this is less than 1/1,000,000.

The maximum number of login attempts is limited to 3 after which the
account is locked. This means that, in the worst case, an attacker has the
probability of guessing the password in one minute as 3/676,000,000. Note:
This is less than 1/100,000.

The ECDSA using P-256 or P-384 curves for key based authentication yields
a minimum security-strength of 128 bits. The chance of a random
authentication attempt falsely succeeding is at most 1/(2128) that is less
than 1/1,000,000.

The maximum number of login attempts is limited to 1 after which the
account switch to password authentication. Then the attacker probability of
succeeding to establish the connection depends on the probability of
guessing the password and it is, as above, 3/676,000,000 less than
1/100,000.

Table 7 - Roles and Authentication

4.3  Services

Table 8 lists the Approved services, the service name, description, the Approved security
function being used by the service, the keys and SSPs accessed by the service, the roles
used by the service, access rights to keys and SSPs and the FIPS 140-3 service indicator
returned by the service.

The environment variable SECURITY_FIPS140_CIPHER_STRICT is exported with the cipher
restriction status. If the cipher_restricted status is enabled, the status output from the

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

15 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

service indicator is returned in the /var/log/audit.log file. Using an approved service will
provide an indicator which shows which approved algorithms were used. If the
cipher_restricted status is disabled, there is no service indicator output.

For SSH service the service indicator is implicit: when the SSH connection is established
the service with the cipher selected is approved.

The following variables are used in the Access rights to keys or SSPs column:

•  G = Generate: The module generates or derives the SSP.
•  R = Read: The SSP is read from the module (e.g. the SSP is output).
•  W = Write: The SSP is updated, imported, or written to the module.
•  E = Execute: The module uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation.
•  Z = Zeroise: The module zeroises the SSP.

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles  Access

Indicator

Service

Description

Approved
Security
Functions

rights to
Keys
and/or
SSPs

N/A

CO
User
CO  W

None

None

CO

N/A

None

CO

N/A

None

CO

N/A

None

password

N/A

N/A

N/A

User Management Services

List users  Display list of all

N/A

N/A

user accounts
Create additional
user

Modify existing
users

N/A

N/A

Delete existing user  N/A

Remove lock from
user who has
exceeded login
attempts
Update own
password

Update others
password

N/A

N/A

N/A

Set password policy
features

N/A

Create
additional
User
Modify
existing
Users
Delete
User
Unlock
User

Update
own
password
Update
others
password
Configure
Password
Policy

Certificate and Key Management Services

Create TLS
Certificate

Self-signed
certificate creation

RSA / ECDSA
SigGen

Create TLS
Key

Used for the SSL
Certificate key file

RSA / ECDSA
KeyGen
CTR_DRBG
CKG

password

W

CO
User

None

password

CO  W

None

N/A

CO

N/A

None

TLS RSA Public / Private
keys
RLS ECDSA Public / Private
keys
TLS RSA Public / Private
keys
TLS ECDSA Public / Private
keys
DRBG seed

DRBG internal state (V and
key values)

CO
User

E

CO
User

G

E

W, E

Service
Indicator:
Approved

Service
Indicator:
Approved

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

16 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Service

Description

Approved
Security
Functions

Delete TLS
Certificate
/Key

Self-signed
certificate / key
deletion

N/A

List
Certificate

List private
keys

Display / log
expiration data of
installed certificates
List private keys

N/A

N/A

Audit Management Services

View
System
Audit Log

Display logs/files of
configuration
changes

Export analytics
logs system

Export
Analytics
Logs
System

Tenant Services

Create
Tenant
Tenant SSH
establish
connection

Create tenant
deployment
Connecting to
tenant-console via
SSH

Tenant SSH
close
connection

Closing the tenant-
console SSH
session

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles  Access

Indicator

rights to
Keys
and/or
SSPs

N/A

None

N/A

None

N/A

None

N/A

None

CO
User

CO
User

CO
User

CO
User

CO

N/A

None

N/A

CO
User
User  N/A

None

None

User  N/A

None

TLS RSA Public / Private
keys
TLS ECDSA Public / Private
keys
N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

System Management Services

Configure
SSH access
options

Configure
SSH user
configurati
on
Reboot
System

Secure
Erase

Enable / Disable
SSH access,
configure IP
address allow list
Update ssh/
authorized_keys file
for user
authentication
Restart
cryptographic
module
Full system
zeroization

SSH Services

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

CO
User

N/A

None

SSH ECDSA public key
SSH ECDSA private key

CO  W

None

SSPs listed in Table 12

CO

Z

SSPs listed in Table 12

CO

Z

Establish
SSH
session

Key authentication  ECDSA with
SHA2-256 /
SHA2-384 curves
P-256 / P-384
N/A

Password
authentication

SSH ECDSA public key
SSH ECDSA private key

W

CO
User

Password

W

CO
User

Module
reboots

Module
end of life

SSH
connection
successful

SSH
connection
successful

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

17 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Service

Description

Approved
Security
Functions

Key exchange

ECDSA KeyGen,
CTR_DRBG

KAS-ECC-SSC

Key derivation

[SP 800-135]
SSH KDF

Maintain
SSH
Session

Data encryption
and decryption

AES-CBC
AES-CTR

Data integrity
(MAC): HMAC-with
SHA-1/ SHA2-256

HMAC

Close SSH session  N/A

Close SSH
Session

TLS Services

SigGen / SigVer

ECDSA / RSA

Establish
TLS
Session

Key exchange

ECDSA KeyGen,
CTR_DRBG

KAS-ECC-SSC

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles  Access

Indicator

rights to
Keys
and/or
SSPs

G

CO
User

SSH
connection
successful

SSH EC Diffie-Hellman
public key
SSH EC Diffie-Hellman
private key
DRBG Seed

DRBG internal state (V and
key values)
SSH EC Diffie-Hellman
public key
SSH EC Diffie-Hellman
private key
SSH shared secret

SSH shared secret

derived SSH session key
(AES, HMAC)
derived SSH Session key
(AES)

E

W, E

W

CO
User

E

G

E

G

E

CO
User

CO
User

derived SSH session key
(HMAC)

CO
User

E

SSH EC Diffie-Hellman key-
pair; SSH shared secret;
derived SSH session key

CO
User

Z

W

CO
User

CO
User

G

TLS RSA Public / Private
keys
TLS ECDSA Public / Private
keys
TLS EC Diffie-Hellman
public key
TLS EC Diffie-Hellman
private key
DRBG Seed

DRBG internal state (V and
key values)
TLS EC Diffie-Hellman
public key
TLS EC Diffie-Hellman
private key
TLS pre-primary secret

E

W, E

W

E

G

E
G, E

G

SSH
connection
successful

SSH
connection
successful

SSH
connection
successful

SSH
connection
successful

SSH
connection
closed

Service
Indicator:
Approved

Service
Indicator:
Approved

Service
Indicator:
Approved

Key derivation

[SP 800-135] TLS
KDF

TLS pre-primary secret
TLS primary secret

CO
User

TLS derived session keys
(AES and HMAC or
authentication cypher)

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

18 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Service

Description

Approved
Security
Functions

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles  Access

Indicator

rights to
Keys
and/or
SSPs

Maintain
TLS
Session

Close TLS
session

Data encryption,
data authentication

AES-CBC with
HMAC-SHA2-256
/ SHA2-384
or AES-GCM

Derived TLS session keys
(AES and HMAC or
authentication cypher)

E

CO
User

Close TLS session  N/A

TLS EC Diffie-Hellman
private key; TLS EC Diffie-
Hellman public key; TLS
pre-primary secret; TLS
primary secret; TLS derived
session keys

Z

CO
User

Service
Indicator:
Approved

TLS
connection
closed

Other services

Show
version
Show
license
Show
status
Self- test

Return the module
name and version
Return license
indication
Return the module
status
Execute integrity
test;
Execute the CASTs

Show
tenant

Lists tenant
information

Table 8 - Approved Services

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

All the
algorithms listed
in table section
10
N/A

N/A (key for self-tests are
not SSPs)

N/A

CO
User
CO
User
CO
User
CO
User

CO
User

N/A

N/A

None

None

N/A

None

N/A

None

N/A

None

Table 9 shows the non-Approved services, a description, the non-Approved algorithms
that are accessed, the role and service indicator, where applicable.

Service

Description

Algorithms Accessed

Establish
TLS
session

Signature generation
and verification
Key exchange

algorithms listed in Table 4 rows DSA, RSA, ECDSA,
EdDSA digital signature
- TLS KDF using MD5, SHA-1, SHA2-224, SHA2-512,
SHA3
- Diffie-Hellman
- RSA Key wrapping with all keys
- EC Diffie-Hellman using curves other than P-256
and P-384
- EC Diffie-Hellman using P-256 and P-384 with
Static Unified and OnePassDh

Maintain
TLS
session

Create
TLS key

Data encryption

AES-CCM, AES-CFB, AES-OFB, AES-XTS, AES-KW,
DES, RC4, Triple-DES, SM2, SM4

Data authentication  HMAC-SHA2-224, HMAC-SHA2-512, AES-CMAC,

Key generation

Triple-DES
RSA Key Generation with modulus sizes other than
2048, 3072 and 4096-bits
ECDSA Key Generation and Verification with curves
other than P-256 and P-384
Safe Primes Key Generation and Verification for
Diffie-Hellman

Role  Indicator

No indicator

No indicator

User/
CO
User/
CO

No indicator

No indicator

No indicator

User/
CO
User/
CO
User/
CO

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

19 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Service

Description

Algorithms Accessed

Key
derivation

Message
digest

Key derivation

Message digest

SNMP KDF
IKEv1 KDF
IKEv2 KDF
SHA2-224
SHA2-512
SM3
MD5

Table 9 - Non-Approved Services

Role  Indicator

No indicator

No indicator

User/
CO

User/
CO

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

20 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

5  Software/Firmware security

5.1  Integrity Techniques

The integrity of the module is verified using the approved integrity technique HMAC-SHA-
384, as listed in the section 10.1.1 by comparing the HMAC-SHA-384 checksum values of
the installed binaries calculated at run time with the stored values computed at build
time. If the values do not match, the module enters the Error state. Integrity tests are
performed as part of the Pre-Operational Self-Tests.

5.2  On-Demand Integrity Test

The on demand pre-operational self-tests, including the integrity test on demand, are
performed by rebooting the module.

5.3  Executable Code

The executable code is defined by the firmware version 1.5.1. All code belonging to this
firmware version is the executable code of the module.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

21 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

6  Operational Environment

6.1  Applicability

The module operates in a non-modifiable operational environment provided by F5 with
firmware version 1.5.1. Once the module is operational, it does not allow the loading of
any additional firmware.

The module is a firmware validated at a Security Level 2 in Physical Security then the
security area is N/A.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

22 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

7  Physical Security

The module tested in the platforms listed in Table 2 is enclosed in a hard-metallic
production grade enclosure that provides opacity and prevents visual inspection of the
internals. Each test platform is fitted with tamper evident labels to provide physical
evidence of attempts to gain access inside the enclosure. The tamper evident labels shall
be installed on the module's platform to operate in approved mode of operation

Physical Security Mechanism

Recommended
Frequency of
Inspection / Test

Inspection/Test Guidance Details

Production grade enclosure
(SL1)

Opaque enclosure (SL2)

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Tamper Evident Labels (SL2)

Once per month  The CO checks the quality of the tamper evident

labels for any sign of removal, replacement,
tearing. In the event that the tamper evident labels
require replacement, a kit providing 25 tamper
labels is available for purchase (P/N: F5-ADD-BIG-
FIPS140). The Crypto Officer shall be responsible
for the storage of the label kits.

Table 10 - Physical Security Inspection Guidelines

7.1  Tamper Label Placement

The pictures below show the location of all tamper-evident labels for each platform. Label
application instructions are provided in Section 11.2.1 of the Crypto-Officer guidance
below. The tamper label placements are delineated with red circles.

Hardware Platform

# of Tamper Labels

r4800

r5900

r5920-DF

r10900
r10920-DF

5

4

5

5

Table 11 – Number of Tamper Evident Labels per hardware appliance

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

23 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Figure 6 - Tamper labels on r4800 (5 of 5 tamper labels)

Figure 7 – Tamper labels on r5900 (4 of 4 tamper labels)

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

24 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Figure 8 - Tamper labels on r5920-DF
(5 of 5 tamper labels). Labels are located on the lateral sides of the platform -labels 1,2,3 and 4. The
tamper label 5 on the chassis lid is covering the ventilation fan tray that allows access to SSD.

Figure 9 – Tamper labels on r10900, r10920-DF
(4 +1  tamper labels shown). Labels are located on the lateral sides of the platform -labels 1,2,3 and 4.
The tamper label 5 on the chassis lid is covering the ventilation fan tray that allows access to SSD.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

25 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

8  Non-invasive Security

This section is N/A until non-invasive security is defined.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

26 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

9  Sensitive Security Parameter Management

Generation

Import

/Export3

Establi
shment

Stor
age

Zeroizatio
n

Use and
related SSPs

Security
Function
and
Cert.
Number

RSA
A3896,
A5260

Key/
SSP
Name/
Type

TLS
RSA
public
key /
asymm
etric

Streng
th

112-
bits
and
150-
bits

N/A

SSD  Secure
Erase

Generated
conformant to
SP800-133r2
(CKG) using
[FIPS 186-4]
Key generation
method;
random values
are obtained
using [SP 800-
90Ar1] DRBG

Public key
input during
protocol
handshake
Public key
output
during
protocol
handshake

RSA
A3896,
A5260

TLS
RSA
private
key /
asymm
etric

112-
bits
and
150-
bits

ECDSA
A3896,
A5260

TLS
ECDSA
public
key /
asymm
etric

128-
bits
and
192-
bits

Generated
conformant to
SP800-133r2
(CKG) using
[FIPS 186-4]
Key generation
method;
random values
are obtained
using [SP 800-
90Ar1] DRBG

Generated
conformant to
SP800-133r2
(CKG) using
[FIPS 186-4]
ECDSA Key
Generation
method;
random values
are obtained
using [SP 800-
90Ar1] DRBG

N/A

N/A

SSD  Secure

Erase

N/A

SSD  Secure
Erase

Public key
input during
protocol
handshake
Public key
output
during
protocol
handshake

TLS
ECDSA
private
key /

128-
bits
and

ECDSA
A3896,
A5260

Generated
conformant to
SP800-133r2
(CKG) using

N/A

N/A

SSD  Secure

Erase

3 "CST Establishment" column defines the distribution and entry options from IG 9.5.A e.g.
Automated Distribution / Electronic Entry = AD/EE

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

27 of 43

Use: Key
generation,
Digital
signature
verification
used in the
TLS protocol
Related
SSPs: TLS
RSA private
key, DRBG
internal state
(V and key
values)

Use: Key
generation,
Digital
signature
generation
used in the
TLS protocol
Related
SSPs: TLS
RSA private
key, DRBG
internal state
(V and key
values)

Use: Key
generation,
Digital
signature
verification
used in the
TLS protocol
Related
SSPs: TLS
ECDSA
private key,
DRBG
internal state
(V and key
values)

Use: Key
generation,
Digital
signature

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Generation

Import

/Export3

Establi
shment

Stor
age

Zeroizatio
n

Use and
related SSPs

Streng
th

Key/
SSP
Name/
Type

Security
Function
and
Cert.
Number

asymm
etric

192-
bits

[FIPS 186-4]
ECDSA Key
Generation
method;
random values
are obtained
using [SP 800-
90Ar1] DRBG

generation
used in the
TLS protocol
Related
SSPs: TLS
ECDSA
public key,
DRBG
internal state
(V and key
values)

Use: Key
generation,
TLS protocol
key exchange
Related
SSPs: TLS
EC Diffie-
Hellman
private key,
TLS pre-
primary
secret, DRBG
internal state
(V and key
values)

Use: Key
generation,
TLS protocol
key exchange
Related
SSPs: TLS
EC Diffie-
Hellman
public key
DRBG, TLS
pre-primary
secret, DRBG
internal state
(V and key
values)

Use: TLS
protocol
Related
SSPs: TLS EC
Diffie-Hellman
public key;
TLS EC Diffie-
Hellman
private key;
TLS primary
secret

128-
bits
and
192-
bits

EC
Diffie-
Hellma
n
A3896,
A5260

TLS EC
Diffie-
Hellma
n
public
key /
asymm
etric

Generated
conformant to
SP800-133r2
(CKG) using
[FIPS 186-4]
Key
Generation;
random values
are obtained
using [SP 800-
90Ar1] DRBG

Public key
input during
protocol
handshake
Public key
output
during
protocol
handshake

N/A

RAM  Secure
Erase;
Closing
TLS
session;
Reboot
System

128-
bits
and
192-
bits

EC
Diffie-
Hellma
n
A3896,
A5260

TLS EC
Diffie-
Hellma
n
private
key /
asymm
etric

Generated
conformant to
SP800-133r2
(CKG) using
[FIPS 186-4]
Key
Generation;
random values
are obtained
using [SP 800-
90Ar1] DRBG

N/A

N/A

RAM  Secure
Erase;
Closing
TLS
session;
Reboot
System

N/A

N/A

TLS
KDF
A3896,
A5260

TLS
pre-
primar
y
secret

EC
Diffie-
Hellm
an:
128-
bits
and
192-
bits

RAM  Secure
Erase;
Closing
TLS
session;
Reboot
System

Establi
shed
via
SP800-
56Ar3
during
key
agree
ment
for EC
Diffie-
Hellma
n

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

28 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Streng
th

Key/
SSP
Name/
Type

Security
Function
and
Cert.
Number

Generation

Import

/Export3

Establi
shment

Stor
age

Zeroizatio
n

Use and
related SSPs

256-
bits

TLS
primar
y
secret

TLS
KDF
A3896,
A5260

Derived from
SP 800-135 TLS
KDF

cipher
suites.

N/A

N/A

AES
HMAC
A3896,
A5260

Derived from
SP 800-135 TLS
KDF

N/A

N/A

RAM  Secure
Erase;
Closing
TLS
session;
Reboot
System

RAM  Secure
Erase;
Closing
TLS
session;
Reboot
System

128
and
256-
bits
(AES)
112 to
256-
bits
(HMAC
)
128
and
192-
bits

128
and
192-
bits

128
and
192-
bits

TLS
derive
d
session
key

SSH
ECDSA
public
key /
asymm
etric

SSH
ECDSA
private
key /
asymm
etric

SSH EC
Diffie-
Hellma
n
public
key /
asymm
etric

SSH EC
Diffie-
Hellma
n
private
key /
asymm
etric

N/A

ECDSA
A3896,
A5260

SSPs input
during
TLS/SSH
sessions

N/A

SSD  Secure

Erase

ECDSA
A3896,
A5260

KAS-
ECC-
SSC
A3896,
A5260

N/A

N/A

N/A

SSD  Secure
Erase

N/A

Public key
output
during
protocol
handshake
Public key
input during
protocol
handshake

N/A

N/A

Generated
conformant to
SP800-133r2
(CKG) using
[FPIS 186-4]
Key generation
method;
random values
are obtained
using [SP 800-
90Ar1] DRBG
Generated
conformant to
SP800-133r2
(CKG) using
[FPIS 186-4]
Key generation
method;
random values
are obtained

RAM  Secure
Erase;
Closing
SSH
session or
terminatin
g the SSH
applicatio
n; Reboot
System

RAM  Secure
Erase;
Closing
SSH
session or
terminatin
g the SSH
applicatio

128
and
192-
bits

KAS-
ECC-
SSC
A3896,
A5260

Use: TLS
protocol
Related
SSPs: TLS
pre-primary
secret; TLS
derived key

Use: TLS
protocol
Related
SSPs: TLS
pre-primary
secret, TLS
primary secret

Use: SSH key-
based
authentication
Related
SSPs: SSH
ECDSA private
key

Use: SSH key-
based
authentication
Related
SSPs: SSH
ECDSA public
key

Use: SSH
handshake
Related
SSPs: SSH EC
Diffie-Hellman
private key,
SSH shared
secret, DRBG
internal state

Use: SSH
handshake
Related
SSPs: SSH EC
Diffie-Hellman
public key,
SSH shared

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

29 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Streng
th

Key/
SSP
Name/
Type

Security
Function
and
Cert.
Number

SSH
shared
secret

128
and
256-
bits

SSH
KDF
A3896,
A5260

Generation

Import

/Export3

Establi
shment

Stor
age

Zeroizatio
n

Use and
related SSPs

using [SP 800-
90Ar1] DRBG

N/A

N/A

n; Reboot
System

secret, DRBG
internal state

Establi
shed
via
SP800-
56Ar3
KAS-
ECC-
SSC

RAM  Secure
Erase;
Closing
SSH
session or
terminatin
g the SSH
applicatio
n; Reboot
System

SSH
derive
d
session
key

Passwo
rd

Entrop
y input
string

128
and
256-
bits
AES)
112
and
256-
bits
(HMAC
)
1/676,
000,0
00
(see
Table
7)
256
bits

AES
HMAC
A3896,
A5260

Derived from
SP 800-135
SSH KDF

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

SSPs input
during
TLS/SSH
sessions

ESV
Cert.
#E85

Obtained from
non-physical
entropy source

N/A

N/A

DRBG
seed

256
bits

CTR_DR
BG
A3896,
A5260

Derived from
the entropy
string as
defined by [SP
800-90Ar1]

N/A

N/A

RAM  Secure
Erase;
Closing
SSH
session or
terminatin
g the SSH
applicatio
n; Reboot
System

Secure
Erase

SSD
as
has
ed
for
mat
RAM  Secure
Erase;
Reboot
System

RAM  Secure
Erase;
Reboot
System

256
bits

DRBG
interna
l state
(V and

CTR_DR
BG
A3896,
A5260

Derived from
the seed as
defined by [SP
800-90Ar1]

N/A

N/A

RAM  Secure
Erase;
Reboot
System

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

30 of 43

Use: Key
derivation;
SSH shared
secret;
Related
SSPs: SSH EC
Diffie-Hellman
public key,
SSH EC Diffie-
Hellman
private key,
SSH derived
session key

Use: Used in
data
encryption /
decryption
and MAC
calculations in
SSH protocol
Related
SSPs: SSH
shared secret

Use: SSH
authentication
; WebUI login
Related
SSPs: N/A

Use: random
number
generation
Related
SSPs: DRBG
seed

Use: random
number
generation
Related
SSPs:
Entropy
input, DRBG
internal state
(V and key
values)

Use: random
number
generation
Related
SSPs: Entropy

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Streng
th

Security
Function
and
Cert.
Number

Key/
SSP
Name/
Type

key
values)

Table 12 - SSPs

Generation

Import

/Export3

Establi
shment

Stor
age

Zeroizatio
n

Use and
related SSPs

input, DRBG
seed

9.1  Random Bit Generation - Entropy Source

The module employs a Deterministic Random Bit Generator (DRBG) based on [SP800-
90Ar1] for the generation of random value used in asymmetric keys. The Approved DRBG
provided by the module is the CTR_DRBG with AES-256. The module uses the SP800-90B
compliant entropy source specified in Table 13 to seed the DRBG.

In accordance with FIPS 140-3 IG D.L, the 'Entropy input string', 'seed', 'DRBG internal
state (V and key values)' are considered CSPs by the module.

No non-DRBG functions or instances are able to access the DRBG internal state.

The operator does not have the ability to modify the F5 entropy source (ES) configuration
settings (see details in Public Use Document referenced in section 11.2). The F5 ES is
tested in the OEs listed in Table 2.

Entropy Source

Minimum number of bits
of entropy

Details

ESV #E85 (non-
physical noise source)

256-bits

The CPU Jitter RNG version 3.4.1 entropy source
uses jitter variations caused by executing
instructions and memory accessed. The entropy
source has been shown to provide full 256-bits of
entropy at the output of the SHA3-256 vetted
conditioning function (#A3769).

Table 13 - Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification

9.2  SSP Generation

The module implements RSA, ECDSA and EC Diffie-Hellman asymmetric key generation
services compliant with [FIPS186-4], and using an [SP800-90Ar1] DRBG.

In accordance with FIPS 140-3 IG D.H, the cryptographic module performs Cryptographic
Key Generation (CKG) for asymmetric keys as per section 4 example 1 [SP800-133r2]
(vendor affirmed).

The RSA and ECDSA key pairs used for Digital Signature Schemes are generated in
accordance with section 5.1 of [SP800-133r2] and maps specifically to [FIPS 186-4].

The ECDH key pair used for Key Establishment are generated in accordance with section
5.2 of [SP800-133r2] i.e. key generation method specified in [SP 800-56Ar3]. For this
module applicable method from [SP800-56Ar3] is 5.6.1.2 ECC Key Pair Generation which
maps to [FIPS 186-4].

The module does not implement symmetric key generation as an explicit service. The
HMAC and AES symmetric keys are derived from shared secrets by applying [SP 800-135]

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

31 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

as part of the TLS/ SSH protocols. The scenario maps to the [SP 800-133r2] section 6.2.1
Symmetric keys generated using Key Agreement Scheme.

9.3  SSP Establishment

The module provides the following key establishment services:

•  EC Diffie-Hellman key agreement scheme compliant with SP800-56Ar3 and FIPS 140-3 IG
D.F scenario 2 (path 2) is used as part of the TLS and SSH Protocols. The full EC Diffie-
Hellman KAS implements a shared secret computation with the key derivation
implemented by [SP 800-135] TLS KDFs and [SP 800-135] SSH KDFs. EC Diffie-Hellman key
agreement provides 128 or 192-bits of encryption strength.

•

•

•

[SP 800-38F], IG D.G, key wrapping in the context of TLS protocol using an approved
authenticated encryption mode (i.e. AES-GCM) provides 128 or 256 bits of encryption
strength (AES Cert. #A3896, 5260)

[SP 800-38F], IG D.G, key wrapping in the context of TLS protocol using a combination of
approved AES encryption and HMAC authentication method provides 128 or 256 bits of
encryption strength (AES and HMAC Certs. #A3896, #A5260).

[SP 800-38F], IG D.G, key wrapping in the context of SSH protocol using a combination of
approved AES-CBC or AES-CTR encryption mode and HMAC authentication method provides
128 or 256 bits of encryption strength (AES and HMAC Certs. #A3896, #A5260).

9.4  SSP Entry / Output

During the TLS handshake, the keys that are entered or output to the module over the
network includes RSA/ECDSA public keys. For TLS with EC Diffie-Hellman key exchange,
the TLS pre-primary secret is established during key agreement and is not output from
the module. Once the TLS session is established, any key or data transfer performed
thereafter is protected by authenticated encryption mode using AES-GCM or by AES
encryption and HMAC authentication through a mutually agreed AES and HMAC session
keys derived by applying SP 800-135 TLS KDF.

For SSH with EC Diffie-Hellman key exchange, the SSH shared secret is established
during key agreement and is not output from the module. SSH ECDSA public keys can be
imported into the module by the CO using the "Configure SSH user configuration" service.
Once the SSH session is established, any key or data transfer performed thereafter is
protected by AES encryption and HMAC authentication through a mutually agreed AES
and HMAC session keys derived by applying SP 800-135 SSH KDF.

There are no encrypted SSPs that are directly entered.

9.5  SSP Storage

As shown in Table 12 the keys are stored in the volatile memory (RAM) in plaintext form
and are destroyed when released by the appropriate zeroization calls or when the system
is rebooted.

The static SSPs are persistently stored in plaintext in the module's non-volatile memory
solid-state drive (SSD). The static SSPs remain on the system across power cycle.

SSPs are only accessible to the authenticated operator, to which the SSPs are associated.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

32 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

9.6  SSP Zeroization

The zeroization methods listed in Table 12, overwrites the memory occupied by keys with
“zeros” or pre-defined values.

The zeroization of temporary values are performed when they are no longer needed.

The zeroization can be enforced by the crypto officer with the following services:

•  Calling Reboot System service will clear the SSPs present in volatile memory RAM memory.
•  For keys present in non-volatile memory, using Secure Erase service (which can only be

triggered during reboot of the test platform) will perform a single pass zeroization erasing
the entire module.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

33 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

10 Self-tests

10.1 Pre-Operational Self-Tests

The pre-operational self-test are performed automatically when the module is powered
on. At initialization the module performed pre-operational self-test (integrity test) and the
conditional cryptographic algorithm tests (CASTs). Services are not available during the
pre-operational self-test and the data output interface is inhibited. On successful
completion of the pre-operational self-tests and CASTs, the module enters the approved
mode and cryptographic services are available. If the module fails any of the tests, the
module returns an error code, and transitions to an the error state where any
cryptographic operations are prohibited.

Both the pre-operational tests and conditional tests are performed without operator
intervention, without any external controls, externally provided test vectors, output
results and the determination of pass of fail is done by the module.

10.1.1

Pre-operational Software/Firmware Integrity Test

The integrity of the module is verified by comparing the HMAC-SHA-384 checksum values
of the installed binaries calculated at run time with the stored values computed at build
time. If the values do not match the module enters the error state (see Table 15). The
HMAC-SHA-384 algorithm is self-tested prior to the integrity test being run.

10.2 Conditional Self-Tests

10.2.1

Conditional Cryptographic Algorithm Tests

The module performs cryptographic algorithm self-tests (CASTs) on all Approved
cryptographic algorithms. The module performs the CASTs shown in Table 14 during
power-up. The CASTs consist of Known Answer Tests for all the approved cryptographic
algorithms, SP800-90B Health Tests for entropy source and SP800-90Ar1 Health Tests for
DRBG.

Algorithm

Test

non-physical entropy source  SP800-90B health test (APT and RCT) classified as CAST:
• at start-up: performed on 1,024 consecutive samples.
• during runtime.

CTR_DRBG

CAST KAT with AES 256 bits with and without derivation function
SP800-90Ar1 section 11.3 health tests

AES

RSA

ECDSA

CAST KAT of AES encryption / decryption separately with AES-GCM mode
and 256-bit key
CAST KAT of AES encryption / decryption separately with ECB mode and
128 bit-key

CAST KAT of RSA PKCS#1 v1.5 signature generation with 2048 bit key and
SHA2-256
CAST KAT of RSA PKCS#1 v1.5 signature verification with 2048 bit key and
SHA2-256

CAST KAT of ECDSA signature generation using P-256 and SHA2-256

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

34 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Algorithm

Test

CAST KAT of ECDSA signature verification using P-256 and SHA2-256

KAS-ECC-SSC

CAST KAT of shared secret computation with P-256 curve

HMAC-SHA-1, HMAC-SHA2-
256, HMAC-SHA2-384

CAST KAT of HMAC-SHA-1,
CAST KAT of HMAC-SHA2-256
CAST KAT of HMAC-SHA2-384 (prior integrity tests during pre-operational
self-tests)

SHA-1, SHA2-256, SHA2-384  CAST KATs for all SHA sizes are covered by the respective HMAC KATs

(allowed per IG 10.3.B)

[SP800-135] KDF

SSH CAST KAT
TLS1.2 CAST KAT

Table 14 – Conditional Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Tests

10.2.2

Conditional Pairwise Consistency Test

A pairwise consistency test is run whenever asymmetric keys (RSA, EC Diffie-Hellman or
ECDSA) are generated. PCT for ECDSA and RSA Key Pair Generation used for digital
signatures is tested by the calculation and verification of a digital signature. PCT for Key
Pair Generation EC Diffie-Hellman is covered by EC Diffie-Hellman PCT tested by the
calculation and verification of a digital signature (IG 10.3.A).

10.2.3

On-Demand Self-Test

On demand self-tests are performed by rebooting the module. This service performs the
same cryptographic algorithm tests executed during pre-operational self-test and CASTs.
During the execution of the periodic and on-demand self-tests, crypto services are not
available, and no data output or input is possible. The PCTs are executed on demand
during the key generation functions invocation.

10.3 Error States

In the error state, any data output or cryptographic operations are prohibited. The
module must reboot or be re-loaded with a fresh image to clear the error condition.

All data output and cryptographic operations are inhibited when the module is in an Error
state.

Error State

Cause of Error

Status Indicator

Error State

HMAC-SHA2-384 integrity test failure

Module will not load

Failure of any of the CAST

Module will not load

Failure of any of the PCTs

Module will reboot

Failure of the APT, RCT at runtime

Module will reboot

Failure of the APT, RCT at restart (power on)

Module will not load

Table 15 - Error States

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

35 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

11 Life-cycle assurance

11.1 Delivery and Operation

The hardware platforms are shipped directly from the hardware manufacturer/authorized
subcontractor via trusted carrier and tracked by that carrier. The hardware is shipped in a
sealed box that includes a packing slip with a list of components inside, and with labels
outside printed with the product nomenclature, sales order number, and product serial
number. Upon receipt of the hardware, the customer is required to perform the following
verifications:

•  Ensure that the shipping label exactly identifies the correct customer’s name and address

as well as the hardware model.

•

Inspect the packaging for tampering or other issues.

•  Ensure that the external labels match the expected delivery and the shipped product.
•  Ensure that the components in the box match those on the documentation shipped with

the product.

•  Verify the hardware platform with the model number given on the shipping label and

marked on the hardware platform itself.

11.2 Crypto Officer Guidance

The Crypto Officer should verify that the following specific configuration rules are
followed in order to operate the module in the approved mode validated configuration.

The ESV Public Use Document (PUD) reference for non-physical entropy source is as
follows: https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/entropy-
validations/certificate/85.

11.2.1

Installing Tamper Evident Labels

Before the hardware platform is installed in the production environment, tamper-evident
labels must be installed in the location identified for each module in Section 7.1. The
following steps should be taken when installing or replacing the tamper evident labels on
the test platforms on which the module runs. The instructions are also included in F5
Platforms: FIPS Kit Installation provided with each hardware platform.

•  Use the provided alcohol wipes to clean the chassis cover and components of dirt, grease,

or oil before you apply the tamper evidence seals.

•  After applying the seal, run your finger over the seal multiple times using extra high

pressure.

•  The seals completely cure within 48 hours.

11.2.2

Installing F5OS

Follow the instructions in the "Initial Configuration" guide for the initial setup and
configuration of the firmware module.

•

Install the FIPS validated F5OS iso onto the device. Guidance on installing or upgrading the
ISO can be found here: https://techdocs.f5.com/en-us/f5os-a-1-0-0/f5-rseries-systems-
installation-upgrade/title-install-upgrade-software.html#install-upgrade-options).

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

36 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

•  Run the Setup wizard "appliance-setup-wizard" using the CLI with the CO account and

default credentials. The system will prompt you to change the password.

•  License the system from the WebUI. Guidance on Licensing the F5OS system can be found
in https://techdocs.f5.com/en-us/hardware/f5-rseries-systems-getting-started/gs-system-
initial-config.html#run-setup-wizard) and summarized as followed: Before you can activate
the license for the F5OS system, you must obtain a base registration key. The base
registration key is pre-installed on new F5OS systems. When you power up the product and
connect through the WebUI, you can open the SYSTEM SETTINGS > Licensing page to
display the registration key. Select "Automatic" for the license Activation Method to
communicate with the F5 License Server. The F5 product generates a dossier which is an
encrypted list of key characteristics used to identify the platform and activates the license.

•  After rebooting the F5OS system, it will then be in the approved mode of operation and is

now ready for additional system configuration.

•  Once the module is installed, licensed and configured, the Crypto Officer should confirm

that the system is installed and licensed correctly.

11.2.2.1

Version Confirmation

The Crypto Officer should call the show version service (with command "show system
security fips-module" and "show system image"), then confirm that the provided version
matches the validated module name and version (F5OS-A Cryptographic Module and
Version 1.5.1). Any firmware loaded into the module other than version 1.5.1 is out of the
scope of this validation and will mean that the module is not operating as a FIPS validated
module.

11.2.2.2

License Confirmation

The FIPS validated module activation requires installation of the license referred as ‘FIPS
license’. The Crypto Officer should call the show license service (with command "show
system licensing"), then verify that the list of license flags includes "FIPS 140 License”.

11.2.3

Additional Guidance

The Crypto Officer should verify that the following specific configuration rules are
followed to operate the module in the FIPS validated configuration.

•  The integrity check must not be disabled. The CO can verify whether this is enabled by

using the command "show system security integrity-check".

•  Management of the module via the platform's LCD display is not allowed.
•  Serial port console and USB port of the test platform on which the module executes should

be disabled after the initial power on and communications setup of the hardware.

11.3 User Guidance

The approved and non-approved security functions available to users are listed in section
2, the physical ports, and logical interfaces available to users are specified in section 3.
The Approved and non-Approved modes of operation are specified in section 2.3. The
algorithm-specific information is listed in sub-section below.

11.3.1

AES GCM IV

AES-GCM IV is constructed in accordance with SP800-38D in compliance with IG C.H
scenario 1a. The implementation of the nonce_explicit management logic inside the
module ensures that when the IV exhausts the maximum number of possible values for a

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

37 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

given session key, the module triggers a new handshake request to establish a new key.
In case the module’s power is lost and then restored, the key used for the AES GCM
encryption or decryption shall be re-distributed. The AES GCM IV generation follows [RFC
5288] and shall only be used for the TLS protocol version 1.2 to be compliant with
[FIPS140-3_IG] IG C.H scenario 1a; thus, the module is compliant with [SP800-52r2]
section 3.3.1.

11.3.2

RSA SigGen/SigVer

All the modulus sizes supported by the module have been ACVP tested (per IG C.F).

11.3.3

Legacy Algorithms

The use of SHA-1 within Digital Signature Verification is allowed for legacy use per SP800-
131Ar2 section 9. This may only be used on data that was generated prior to the Legacy
Date specified in FIPS 140-3 IG C.M.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

38 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

12 Mitigation of other attacks

The module does not implement security mechanisms to mitigate other attacks.

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

39 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Appendix A.  Glossary and Abbreviations

ADC
AES

API
ACVP
CAVP
CBC

CCM
CFB
CKG
CLI
CMAC
CMVP

CSP
CTR
DES
DSA

DRBG
ECB
ECC
ECDSA
ESV
FIPS

GCM

GMAC
HMAC
IKE
KAS

KAT

KDF
KTS
KW
MAC
NIST

OFB
PAA

PUD
PSS

RNG
RSA
SHA
SHS

SNMP
SSC
SSD
SSH
SSP

Application Delivery Controller
Advanced Encryption Standard

Application Programming Interface
Automated Cryptographic Validation Protocol
Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program
Cipher Block Chaining
Counter with Cipher Block Chaining-Message Authentication Code
Cipher Feedback

Cryptographic Key Generation
Command Line Interface
Cipher-based Message Authentication Code
Cryptographic Module Validation Program
Critical Security Parameter
Counter Mode
Data Encryption Standard

Digital Signature Algorithm
Deterministic Random Bit Generator
Electronic Code Book
Elliptic Curve Cryptography
Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm
Entropy Source Validation
Federal Information Processing Standards Publication

Galois Counter Mode
Galois Message Authentication Code
Hash Message Authentication Code
Internet Key Exchange
Key Agreement Schema
Known Answer Test

Key Derivation Function
Key Transport Scheme
AES Key Wrap
Message Authentication Code
National Institute of Science and Technology
Output Feedback
Processor Algorithm Accelerators

Public Use Document
Probabilistic Signature Scheme
Random Number Generator
Rivest, Shamir, Adleman
Secure Hash Algorithm
Secure Hash Standard

Simple Network Mail Protocol
Shared-Secret Computation
Solid State Drive
Secure Shell
Sensitive Security Parameter

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

40 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

TLS

Triple-DES
XTS

Transport Layer Security

Triple Data Encryption Standard
XEX-based Tweaked-codebook mode with cipher text Stealing

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

41 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Appendix B.  References

FIPS140-3

FIPS PUB 140-3 - Security Requirements For Cryptographic Modules
March 2019
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.140-3

FIPS140-3_IG

Implementation Guidance for FIPS PUB 140-3 and the Cryptographic Module
Validation Program
https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/fips-140-3-ig-
announcements

FIPS180-4

FIPS186-4

FIPS197

FIPS198-1

RFC 2313

RFC 5288

RFC 7627

SP800-38A

SP800-38B

SP800-38C

SP800-38D

Secure Hash Standard (SHS)
March 2012
http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.180-4.pdf

Digital Signature Standard (DSS)
July 2013
http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.186-4.pdf

Advanced Encryption Standard
November 2001
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips/fips197/fips-197.pdf

The Keyed Hash Message Authentication Code (HMAC)
July 2008
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips/fips198-1/FIPS-198-1_final.pdf

PKCS #1: RSA Encryption Version 1.5
March 1998
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2313

AES Galois Counter Mode (GCM) Cipher Suites for TLS
August 2008
https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5288.txt

Transport Layer Security (TLS) Session Hash and Extended Master Secret
Extension
September 2015
https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc7627.txt

NIST Special Publication 800-38A - Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of
Operation Methods and Techniques
December 2001
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-38a/sp800-38a.pdf

NIST Special Publication 800-38B - Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of
Operation: The CMAC Mode for Authentication
May 2005
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-38B/SP_800-38B.pdf

NIST Special Publication 800-38C - Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of
Operation: the CCM Mode for Authentication and Confidentiality
May 2004
http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-38c.pdf

NIST Special Publication 800-38D - Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of
Operation:  Galois/Counter Mode (GCM) and GMAC
November 2007
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-38D/SP-800-38D.pdf

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

42 of 43

F5OS-A Cryptographic Module

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

SP800-38F

NIST Special Publication 800-38F - Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of
Operation: Methods for Key Wrapping
December 2012
http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-38F.pdf

SP800-52r2

SP800-56Ar3

SP800-90Ar1

Guidelines for the Selection, Configuration, and Use of Transport Layer
Security (TLS) Implementations
August 2019
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-52r2.pdf

NIST Special Publication 800-56A Revision 3 - Recommendation for Pair Wise
Key Establishment Schemes Using Discrete Logarithm Cryptography
April 2018
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-56Ar3

NIST Special Publication 800-90A - Revision 1 - Recommendation for Random
Number Generation Using Deterministic Random Bit Generators
June 2015
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-90Ar1

SP800-90B

NIST Special Publication 800-90B - Recommendation for the Entropy Sources
Used for Random Bit Generation
January 2018
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-90B

SP800-131Ar2

Transitioning the Use of Cryptographic Algorithms and Key Lengths
March 2019
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-131Ar2.pdf

SP800-133r2

NIST Special Publication 800-133 Revision 2 - Recommendation for
Cryptographic Key Generation
June 2020
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-133r2

SP800-135r1

NIST Special Publication 800-135 Revision 1 - Recommendation for Existing
Application-Specific Key Derivation Functions
December 2011
http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-135r1.pdf

SP800-140B

NIST Special Publication 800-140B - CMVP Security Policy Requirements
March 2020
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-140B.pdf

This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

© 2024 F5, Inc. / atsec information security.

43 of 43

