Symantec, A Division of Broadcom

Edge SWG

Version 7.4

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

FIPS 140-3 Security Level: 1
Document Version 1.2
Date: November 2024

Prepared by:

          www.acumensecurity.net

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 1 of 45

Introduction
Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 140-3 — Security Requirements for Cryptographic
Modules specifies requirements for cryptographic modules to be deployed in a Sensitive but Unclassified
environment. The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and Canadian Centre for Cyber
Security  (CCCS)  run  the  Cryptographic  Module  Validation  Program  (CMVP).  The  NVLAP  accredits
independent testing labs to perform FIPS 140-3 testing; the CMVP validates modules meeting FIPS 140-3
validation. Validated is the term given to a module that is documented and tested against the FIPS 140-3
criteria.

More information is available on the CMVP website at:
https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program.

About this Document

This  non-proprietary  Cryptographic  Module  Security  Policy  for  the  Edge  Secure  Web  Gateway  (SWG);
running the Secure Gateway Operating System (SGOS) version 7.4, provides an overview of the product
and a high-level description of how it meets the overall Security Level 1 security requirements Federal
Information Processing Standards (FIPS) Publication 140-3.

The Edge SWG may also be referred to as the “module” in this document.

Disclaimer

The  contents  of  this  document  are  subject  to  revision  without  notice  due  to  continued  progress  in
methodology, design, and manufacturing.  Broadcom shall have no liability for any error or damages of
any kind resulting from the use of this document.

Copyright © 2024 Broadcom. All Rights Reserved. The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom Inc. and/or
its subsidiaries. For more information, go to www.broadcom.com. All trademarks, trade names, service
marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.

Broadcom reserves the right to make changes without further notice to any products or data herein to
improve reliability, function, or design. Information furnished by Broadcom is believed to be accurate
and reliable. However, Broadcom does not assume any liability arising out of the application or use of
this information, nor the application or use of any product or circuit described herein, neither does it
convey any license under its patent rights nor the rights of others.

Notices

This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright
notice.

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 2 of 45

Contact Information
Symantec, A Division of Broadcom
1320 Ridder Park Dr,
San Jose, CA 95131
www.broadcom.com

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 3 of 45

Table of Contents
Introduction .................................................................................................................................................. 2
Disclaimer ..................................................................................................................................................... 2
Contact Information ..................................................................................................................................... 3
1.  General ................................................................................................................................................. 6
Scope ............................................................................................................................................. 6
Overview ....................................................................................................................................... 6
2.  Cryptographic Module Specification ................................................................................................... 9
2.1  Module Description ...................................................................................................................... 9
2.1.1 Cryptographic Boundary ........................................................................................................... 10

1.1
1.2

2.2 Modes of Operation ......................................................................................................................... 11
2.3 Cryptographic Algorithms ................................................................................................................ 11
2.4 Security Rules ................................................................................................................................... 14
2.4.1 Crypto-Officer Guidance ........................................................................................................... 14

2.4.2 User Guidance ........................................................................................................................... 14

2.4.3 Module Correlation ................................................................................................................... 14

2.4.4 Additional Security Rules .......................................................................................................... 14

3.  Cryptographic Module Interfaces ...................................................................................................... 17
4.  Roles, Services, and Authentication .................................................................................................. 18
4.1 Assumption of Roles......................................................................................................................... 18
4.2 Authentication Methods .................................................................................................................. 19
4.3 Services ............................................................................................................................................. 24
4.3.1 Crypto Officer Services .............................................................................................................. 24

4.3.2 User Role Services ..................................................................................................................... 24

4.4 Self-initiated Cryptographic Output Capability ............................................................................... 32
5.
Software/Firmware Security .............................................................................................................. 32
6.  Operational Environment .................................................................................................................. 32
7.  Physical Security ................................................................................................................................. 32
8.  Non-Invasive Security ......................................................................................................................... 32
9.
Sensitive Security Parameter Management ...................................................................................... 33
10.  Self-Tests ............................................................................................................................................. 41
10.1 Pre-operational Self-Tests .............................................................................................................. 41
10.2 Conditional Self-Tests ..................................................................................................................... 41
11.  Life-Cycle Assurance ........................................................................................................................... 43
11.1 Secure Operation/Management ............................................................................................... 43

11.1.1 Initialization ......................................................................................................................... 43
12.  Mitigation of Other Attacks ............................................................................................................... 45

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 4 of 45

List of Tables
Table 1 - Security Levels ................................................................................................................................ 8
Table 2 - Tested Operational Environments ................................................................................................. 9
Table 3 - Vendor Affirmed Operational Environments ................................................................................. 9
Table 4 - Approved Algorithms ................................................................................................................... 13
Table 5 - Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security
Claimed ....................................................................................................................................................... 14
Table 6 - Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation ........................... 14
Table 7 - Ports and Interfaces ..................................................................................................................... 17
Table 8 - Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output .............................................................................. 19
Table 9 - Roles and Authentication ............................................................................................................. 23
Table 10 - Approved Services ...................................................................................................................... 30
Table 11 - Non-Approved Services .............................................................................................................. 31
Table 12 - SSPs ............................................................................................................................................ 40
Table 13 - Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification ................................................ 41

List of Figures
Figure 1 - Typical Deployment of a Secure Web Gateway Virtual Appliance ............................................... 7
Figure 2 - Cryptographic Boundary Block Diagram for SSP S410 ................................................................ 10
Figure 3 - Cryptographic Boundary Block Diagram for Dell PowerEdge R440 ............................................ 10
Figure 4 - Intel Xeon Silver 4210 ................................................................................................................. 11
Figure 5 - Intel Xeon Silver 4216 ................................................................................................................. 11
Figure 6 - no-show command ..................................................................................................................... 45

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 5 of 45

1.  General

1.1  Scope
This  document  describes  the  security  policy  for  the  Edge  SWG  (SW  version:  SGOS  7.4)  cryptographic
module. It contains specification of the security rules, under which the cryptographic module operates,
including the security rules derived from the requirements of the FIPS 140-3 standard. The module type
is software-hybrid and has a multi-chip standalone embodiment.

1.2  Overview
The Edge SWG appliances from Symantec provide companies with the ability to deploy a scalable proxy-
based security solution to protect their organization against advanced threats. The Edge SWG acts as
gateway between web users and the Internet: a single point where all web traffic can be monitored and
corporate policies for web use can be enforced. This strategic position makes the Edge SWG a natural
place to build additional network security technologies that defend against a very wide range of
cybercrimes, malware, and phishing.

The Edge SWG offers the following features.

•  High-speed decryption and re-encryption of SSL/TLS traffic, so attackers cannot use encryption
to conceal malware or command and control traffic into and out of the corporate network
•  Universal Policy Enforcement (UPE) from Symantec allows organizations to enforce acceptable
web use policies for employees who connect through the Edge SWG. Symantec allows you to
centralize your policy creation, maintenance, and installation for simplified, unified
administration.

•  Out of the box protection – Recommended, strong, and maximum policies crafted by security

experts.
Immediate protection with the broadest advanced threat integrations

•
•  Direct cloud application visibility and real-time controls
•  Unmatched performance and reliability
•
•  Strong user authentication can be incorporated into the policies, supporting a wide variety of

Logs and reports on how users connect to websites.

identity sources, including NTLM, LDAP, RADIUS, one-time passwords, and certificates

•  When paired with other Symantec technologies, it can provide:

o  Malware detection using multiple anti-malware engines and detection methods
o  Multi-layered deep content inspection and analysis to detect spam and application-level

threats in the payloads of network traffic

o  Data Loss Prevention (DLP) to identify confidential information and block it from leaving

the corporate network

o  Cloud Access Security Broker (CASB) features to monitor and control what applications

users can access and how documents and files are sent to the cloud

o  Web (browser) isolation to create a safe browsing experience, prevent malware from
moving from browsers onto employees’ systems, and block sharing of credentials on
suspicious websites

•

Integration the world’s largest civilian threat intelligence dataset with the Symantec Global
Intelligence Network (GIN)

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 6 of 45

The Symantec Global Intelligence Network (GIN), which
monitors more than 175 million endpoints and Edge
SWGs protects 80 million users. It uses artificial
intelligence to analyze over 3.7 billion lines of telemetry
to identify and categorize emerging threats and
suspicious and malicious URLs and websites. Key data is
continually forwarded to hardware and virtual Edge
SWGs in data centers and in cloud deployments and to
hosted SaaS platforms.

See Figure 1 below for a typical deployment scenario for the Edge SWGs.

Figure 1 - Typical Deployment of a Secure Web Gateway Virtual Appliance

The security provided by the Edge SWG can be used to control, protect, and monitor the Internal
Network’s use of controlled protocols on the External Network. The controlled protocols1
implemented are:

•  Windows Media Optimization (Microsoft Media Streaming (MMS))

1 These protocols are not executed by the cryptographic module.

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 7 of 45

File Transfer Protocol (FTP) Optimization
Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) Termination/Protocol Optimization

•  Microsoft Smooth Streaming Optimization
•  Real Media Optimization
•  Real-Time Streaming Protocol (RTSP) Optimization
•  Real-Time Messaging Protocol (RTMP) Optimization
•  QuickTime Optimization (Apple HTTP Live Streaming)
•  Adobe Flash Optimization (Adobe HTTP Dynamic Streaming)
•  Bandwidth Management
•  DNS proxy
•  Advanced DNS Access Policy
•  Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)/Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTPS) Acceleration
•
•
•  TCP2 tunneling protocols (Secure Shell (SSH))
•
Secure Shell
•  Telnet Proxy
•
ICAP Services
•  Netegrity SiteMinder
•  Oblix COREid
•  Peer-To-Peer
•  User Authentication
•  Onbox Content Filtering (3rd Party or BCWF2)
•  Offbox Content Filtering (via ICAP)
•

SOCKS

Access control is achieved by enforcing configurable policies on controlled protocol traffic to and from
the Internal Network users. The policy may include authentication, authorization, content filtering, and
auditing.

The module is validated at the overall security level 1 and the following FIPS 140-3 Section levels in Table
1.

ISO/IEC 24759
Section 6.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9

10
11
12

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security Level

General
Cryptographic Module Specification
Cryptographic Module Interfaces
Roles, Services, and Authentication
Software/Firmware Security
Operational Environment
Physical Security
Non-Invasive Security
Sensitive Security Parameter
Management
Self-Tests
Life-Cycle Assurance
Mitigation of Other Attacks

Table 1 - Security Levels

1
1
1
2
1
1
1
N/A
1

1
1
N/A

2 Transmission Control Protocol

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 8 of 45

2.  Cryptographic Module Specification

For the FIPS 140-3 validation, the module was tested on the following operational environments listed in
Table 2.

#  Operating System

1  SGOS v7.4 (with KVM v2.3

hypervisor)

2  SGOS v7.4 (with VMware ESXi v6.5

hypervisor)

Hardware
Platform
Symantec SSP-
S410
Dell PowerEdge
R440

Intel Xeon Silver
4210
Intel Xeon Silver
4216
Table 2 - Tested Operational Environments

With PAA

With PAA

Processor

PAA/Acceleration

Additionally, the vendor affirms that the cryptographic module is also fully supported on the following
platforms and operational environments:

#
1

2

3

4

Operating System
SGOS v7.4

SGOS v7.4

SGOS v7.4

SGOS v7.4

Hardware Platform
Microsoft Azure Hypervisor running on Intel
Xeon Platinum 8272CL processor

AWS Xen Hypervisor running on Intel Xeon E5-2686 v4
processor
Google Cloud Platform running on Intel Xeon® E5-2689
processor
Microsoft Hyper-V hypervisor running on Intel Xeon
Platinum 8260L processor running on Dell PowerEdge
R840 server
Table 3 - Vendor Affirmed Operational Environments

No claim can be made as to the correct operation of the module or the security strengths of the
generated keys when ported to an operational environment, which is not listed on the validation
certificate.

2.1  Module Description

The module is a software-hybrid module and has a Multi-Chip Standalone embodiment, that meets
overall Level 1 FIPS 140-3 requirements. The module was tested and found complaint on a Dell
PowerEdge R440 Server using VMware ESXi v6.5 hypervisor and Symantec SSP-S410 using KVM v2.3.

The module software consists of Symantec’s proprietary operating system, SGOS v7.4. Acting as the guest
OS in the respective hypervisors, this full-featured operating system includes both OS-level functions as
well as the application-level functionality that provides the appliance’s optimization and proxying services.
The module software version 7.4 contains the following cryptographic libraries:

•  SGOS Cryptographic Library v5.1.1
•  VA Blue Coat Boot Loader v5.31

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 9 of 45

2.1.1 Cryptographic Boundary

The cryptographic boundary of the module (shown by the yellow line in Figures 2 & 3) consists of the SGOS
v7.4 (which contains the VA Blue Coat Boot Loader v5.31, and the SGOS Cryptographic Library v5.1.1) and
the processors for cryptographic acceleration as listed in Table 2. The Tested Operational Environment’s
Physical Perimeter (TOEPP) of the module is the SSP S410 and Dell PowerEdge R440 platforms, in which
the module executes.

Figure 2 - Cryptographic Boundary Block Diagram for SSP S410

Intel Xeon 4210

Figure 3 - Cryptographic Boundary Block Diagram for Dell PowerEdge R440

Intel Xeon 4216

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 10 of 45

Figure 4 - Intel Xeon Silver 4210

Figure 5 - Intel Xeon Silver 4216

2.2 Modes of Operation

The module supports two modes of operation: Approved and Non-Approved. The module will be in
Approved mode once the initialization steps mentioned in Section 11.1.1 are completed. See Tables 4
and 5 for a list of Approved or Allowed algorithms. To transition from Approved mode to Non-Approved
mode, the operator should execute “fips-mode-disable” which will trigger zeroization via module
reboot. To transition from Non-Approved mode of operation to Approved mode, the operator must run
the command “fips-mode enable” along with the initialization instructions as specified in Section 11.1.1.
If the initialization steps are not followed as specified in Section 11.1.1, then the module may be
operational, in a non-compliant state.

2.3 Cryptographic Algorithms

The module implements the Approved algorithms3 listed in the table below:

3 There are algorithms, modes, and key/moduli sizes that have been CAVP-tested but are not used by any
Approved service of the module. Only the algorithms, modes/methods, and key lengths/curves/moduli shown in
this table are used by an Approved service of the module.

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 11 of 45

CAVP Cert

Algorithm and
Standard

A2936

A2936

Vendor Affirmed

CVL
A2936
CVL
A2936

CVL
A2936
A2936

A2936

A2936

A2936

AES
FIPS 197
SP800-38A
AES
FIPS 197
SP800-38D
CKG
SP800-133rev2
Sections 4, 5 and
6.1
CVL
SP800-135rev1
CVL
SP800-135rev1

CVL
SP800-135rev1
DRBG
SP800-90Arev14
HMAC
FIPS 198-1

KDF SNMP

KDF SSH

KDF TLS v1.2

CTR_DRBG

HMAC

KAS-FFC-SSC
SP800-56Arev3

KAS-FFC-SSC
dhEphem

KAS
SP800-56Arev3
SP800-135rev1

KAS-FFC-SSC,
KDF SSH,
KDF TLS v1.2,
TLS v1.3 KDF

A2936

PBKDF
SP800-132

PBKDF

Mode/
Method

Description / Key
Size(s) / Key
Strength(s)
SGOS Cryptographic Library v5.1.1

CBC, CTR

128, 192, 256

GCM

128, 192, 256

N/A

N/A

Use/Function

Data Encryption /
Decryption

Authenticated Encryption,
Authenticated Decryption

Symmetric and Asymmetric
Key Generation

SNMP (Password
Length: 64, 128)
SSH (Cipher: AES-128,
AES-192, AES-256)

Key Derivation

Key Derivation

TLS v1.2 (SHA2-256,
SHA2-384, SHA2-512)
AES 128, 192, 256

HMAC-SHA-1,
HMAC-SHA2-224,
HMAC-SHA2-256,
HMAC-SHA2-384,
HMAC-SHA2-512
ffdhe2048,
ffdhe3072,
ffdhe4096,
ffdhe6144,
ffdhe8192
KAS-FFC-SSC:
ffdhe2048,
ffdhe3072,
ffdhe4096,
ffdhe6144,
ffdhe8192

SHA-1, SHA2-224,
SHA2-256, SHA2-
384, SHA2-512

Key Derivation

Random Bit Generation

Message Authentication

Shared Secret Computation
per SP800-56Arev3

Key Agreement Scheme per
SP800-56Arev3;
Scenario 2 path 2 of FIPS
140-3 IG D.F. Key
establishment
methodology providing
between 112 and 200 bits
of encryption strength.
Key Derivation

4 If CTR_DRBG is used, then the caller shall ensure that the derivation function is enabled.

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 12 of 45

CAVP Cert

A2936

Algorithm and
Standard

Mode/
Method

RSA
(FIPS 186-4)

KeyGen
SigGen
SigVer

Description / Key
Size(s) / Key
Strength(s)
10245, 2048, 3072,
4096 modulo

SHA-16, SHA2-224,
SHA2-256, SHA2-384,
SHA2-512;
PKCS1 v1.5, PKCSPSS,
ANSI X9.31

ffdhe2048, ffdhe3072,
ffdhe4096, ffdhe6144,
ffdhe8192
N/A

Use/Function

Key Pair Generation
Digital Signature
Generation, Digital
Signature Verification

Per IG C.F, supported RSA
modulus sizes specified by
ACVP have been CAVP
tested. For SigGen, the
supported modulus are
2048, 3072 and 4096. For
SigVer, the supported key
sizes are 1024, 2048, 3072
and 4096.
Key Generation, Key
Verification

Message Digest

SHA2-256, SHA2-384

Key Derivation

Seeding for the
Approved DRBG (SP
800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG)

Random Number
Generation

A2936

A2936

CVL
A2936
N/A

A3192

A3192

A3192

SafePrimes
SP800-56Arev3

KeyGen
KeyVer

SHA-17, SHA2-224,
SHA2-256, SHA2-
384, SHA2-512
TLS v1.3 KDF

N/A

SHS
(FIPS 180-4)

CVL
RFC8446
ENT (P)
(SP800-90B)

SHS
(FIPS 180-4)
RSA
(FIPS 186-4)

HMAC
(FIPS 198-1)

VA Blue Coat Boot Loader v5.31
SHA-1, SHA2-256

  N/A

SigVer

HMAC-SHA-1

  2048 modulo
  SHA2-256;
  PKCS1 v1.5
  Key Length: 256-1024

Table 4 - Approved Algorithms

Message Digest as part of
Integrity Check
Digital Signature
Verification as part of
Integrity Check
Integrity Check

Algorithm

AES CBC mode (non-
conformant)

Caveat
All backups are transmitted via
SSH (encrypted by the session
key), so any non-conformant

Use / Function

Configuration backup
encryption

5 Only for RSA Signature Verification.
6 Not applicable to RSA Signature Generation.
7 Only for Non-digital signature and legacy use, all other SHAs acceptable for hash functions applications.

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 13 of 45

encryption is redundant/not
required for security (No
security claimed)

Table 5 - Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security Claimed

Algorithm

Use / Function

TLS v1.0/1.1 with MD5
EC Diffie-Hellman (non-compliant)

TLS 1.0/1.1 sessions
Remote management session via SSH and syslog

Table 6 - Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation

NOTE:
No parts of the TLS, SSH, and SNMP protocols, other than the KDF, have been reviewed or tested by the
CAVP and CMVP.

Per IG D.H, the vendor affirms symmetric keys and seeds for asymmetric keys are generated per SP800-
133rev2 (unmodified output from a DRBG).

2.4 Security Rules

2.4.1 Crypto-Officer Guidance
The Crypto-Officer can monitor and configure the module via the CLI (serial port or SSH).

The Crypto-Officer should monitor the module’s status regularly. If any irregular activity is noticed or the
module is consistently reporting errors, customers should consult Symantec’s Documentation portal and
the administrative guidance documents to resolve the issues. If the problems cannot be resolved
through these resources, Symantec customer support should be contacted.

Key sizes less than what is specified shall not be used. The Crypto Officer password, “enabled” mode
password, “Setup” password and “User” password must be at least 8 characters in length.

2.4.2 User Guidance
The  User  is  only  able  to  access  the  module  remotely  via  SSH  (CLI).  The  User  must  change  his  or  her
password  at  the  initial  login.  The  User  must  be  diligent  to  pick  strong  passwords  (alphanumeric  with
minimum 8 characters) that will not be easily guessed and must not reveal their password to anyone.
Additionally, the User should be careful to protect any secret/private keys in their possession, such as TLS
or SSH session keys. The User should report to the Crypto-Officer if any irregular activity is noticed. Please
refer to Section 11.1.1 for initialization procedures.

2.4.3 Module Correlation
The Crypto-Officer may issue the “show-version” command to view the module identifier and version
(SGOS 7.4.0.0 SWG Edition). The module identifier “SWG” denotes the module name “Edge SWG”. The
version of Edge SWG listed in this Security Policy, 7.4, can be verified by the version of SGOS printed out
as part of the “show version” command.

2.4.4 Additional Security Rules

AES GCM IV Generation
The module’s AES-GCM implementation conforms to IG C.H scenarios 1a, 1d, 2 and 5.

Scenario 1a TLS 1.2

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 14 of 45

The module is compliant with TLS 1.2 protocol per SP800-52rev2. The AES-GCM IV generation is
compliant with RFC5288. The module supports acceptable AES-GCM ciphersuites from Section
3.3.1 of SP800-52rev2.

The module explicitly checks that the nonce_explicit part of the IV (i.e., counter) has not
reached the maximum number of potential values (264-1) for a given session key. Upon detecting
exhaustion of the counter, the module returns an error indication, prompting either connection
abortion or initiation of a handshake to establish a new encryption key.

If the module experiences power loss and subsequently the power is restored, the calling
application must ensure that any AES-GCM keys used for encryption or decryption are re-
distributed.

Scenario 1d SSHv2

The IV generation is in compliance with SSHv2 and used for AES-GCM encryption. The module is
compliant with RFC4252, 4253 and 5647.

Scenario 2 Random internal IV generation

The module also supports an internal IV generation using the module’s Approved DRBG, which is
complaint with IG C.H and SP800-38D Section 8.2.2. The AES-GCM IV is generated randomly
internal to the module using module’s Approved DRBG. The DRBG seeds itself from the entropy
source. The GCM IV is 96 bits in length. Per Section 9, this 96-bit IV contains 96 bits of entropy.

Scenario 5 TLS 1.3

The module supports a compliant TLS 1.3 as defined in RFC8446. The module uses the
ciphersuites found in Appendix B.4 of RFC8446 and the acceptable AES-GCM ciphersuites from
Section 3.3.1 of SP800-52rev2. The ciphersuites explicitly select AES-GCM as the
encryption/decryption ciphers. The module implements, within its boundary, an IV generation
unit for TLS 1.3 that keeps control of the 64-bit counter value within the AES-GCM IV.

If the module experiences power loss and subsequently the power is restored, the calling
application must ensure that any AES-GCM keys used for encryption or decryption are re-
distributed.

Upon detecting exhaustion of the counter, the module returns an error indication, prompting
either connection abortion or initiation of a handshake to establish a new encryption key.

PBKDF
Per IG D.N, keys generated using PBKDF shall only be used in data storage applications. The minimum
password length allowed is 8 characters and the maximum password length is 64. The worst-case
probability of guessing the value is 62^8 assuming all characters are digits, upper-case letters and/or
lower-case letters. The operator shall choose the password length and the iteration count in such a way
that the combination will make the key derivation computationally intensive. PBKDF is implemented to
support option 1a specified in section 5.4 of SP800-132. The keys derived from SP800-132 map to
section 3.1 of SP800-133rev2 as indirect generation from DRBG.  The minimum iteration count enforced

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 15 of 45

is 10000 and the value is chosen considering both the security that it provides and the performance of
the process. The derived keys may only be used in storage applications.

Key Agreement

ECDH (Elliptic Curve Diffie-Helman) cipher suites or ECDH keypair generated by the module cannot be
used in any configuration in the Approved mode of operation. Only DH (Diffie-Hellman) can be used in
Approved mode.

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 16 of 45

3.  Cryptographic Module Interfaces

The module’s physical ports can be categorized into the following logical interfaces defined by
FIPS 140- 3:

•  Data input
•  Data output
•  Control input
•  Status output

As a software-hybrid module, the virtual appliance has no physical characteristics. The module’s physical
and electrical characteristics, manual controls, and physical indicators are those of the host system (Dell
PowerEdge R440 and S410 Server) and out of scope of this validation.  The hypervisor provides virtualized
ports and interfaces for the module. Interaction with the virtual ports created by the hypervisor occurs
through the host system’s Ethernet port. Management, data, and status traffic must all flow through the
Ethernet  port.  Direct  interaction  with  the  module  via  the  host  system  is  possible  over  the  serial  port;
however, the Crypto Officer must first map the physical serial port to the module using vSphere Client. The
mapping of the module’s logical interfaces in the software to FIPS 140-3 logical interfaces is described in
Table 7 below.

Physical port

Logical interface

Input Registers
Output Registers
Control Registers

Data Input
Data Output
Control Input

Status Registers

Status Output

Table 7 - Ports and Interfaces

Data that passes over
port/interface

Input packets
Output packets
Input packets (Configuration or
Administrative data)
Status

Data input and output are the packets utilizing the services provided by the modules. These packets enter
and  exit  the  module  through  the  Virtual  Ethernet  ports.  Control  input  consists  of  Configuration  or
Administrative data entered into the modules. Control input enters the module via the Virtual Ethernet
and Virtual Serial Port interfaces (SSH CLI, and Serial CLI). Status output consists of the status provided or
displayed via the user interfaces (such as SSH CLI, and Serial CLI) or available log information. Status output
exits the module via the user interfaces (such as SSH CLI, and Serial CLI) over the Virtual Ethernet or Virtual
Serial Ports. The module does not implement a control output interface.

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 17 of 45

4.  Roles, Services, and Authentication

4.1 Assumption of Roles

The module supports both Crypto-Officer(CO) and User role. Before accessing the modules for
any administrative services, COs and Users must authenticate to the module according to the
methods specified in Table 9. The module offers Command Line Interface:

•  Command Line Interface (CLI): Accessible locally via the serial port (provides access to the
Setup Console portion of the CLI which requires the additional “Setup” password to gain
access) or remotely using SSH. This interface is used for management of the modules. This
interface  must  be  accessed  locally  via  the  serial  port  to  perform  the  initial  module
configurations  (IP  address,  DNS  server,  gateway,  and  subnet  mask)  and  placing  the
modules into the Approved mode. When the module has been properly configured, this
interface can be accessed via SSH. Management of the module may take place via SSH or
locally  via  the  serial  port.  Authentication  is  required  before  any  functionality  will  be
available through the CLI.

When managing the module over the CLI, COs and Users both log into the modules with administrator
accounts entering the “standard”, or “unprivileged” mode on the module. Unlike Users, COs can enter
the “enabled” or “privileged” mode after initial authentication to the CLI by supplying the “enabled”
mode password. Additionally, COs can only enter the “configuration” mode from the “enabled” mode
via the CLI, which grants privileges to make configuration level changes. Going from the “enabled” mode
to the “configuration” mode does not require additional credentials. The details of these modes of
operation are found below:

Crypto-Officer role and privileges:

•  The CO is an administrator of the module that has “enabled” mode access while using the

CLI.

•  When the CO is using the CLI, and while in the “enabled” mode of operation, COs may put the
module in its Approved mode, reset to the factory state (local serial port only) and query if the
module is in Approved mode. In addition, COs may do all the services available to Users while
not in “enabled” mode.

•  Once the CO has entered the “enabled” mode, the CO may then enter the “configuration” mode
via the CLI. The “configuration” mode provides the CO management capabilities to perform tasks
such as account management and key management.

User role and privileges:

•  The User is an administrator of the module that operates only in the “standard” or

“unprivileged” mode and has not been granted access to the “enabled” mode in the CLI.

•  The User may access the CLI for management of the module.

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 18 of 45

Role

Service

Input

Output

Crypto-Officer (CO)

Module initialization

Crypto-Officer (CO)
Crypto-Officer (CO)
Crypto-Officer (CO)

Crypto-Officer (CO)
Crypto-Officer (CO) and
User

Crypto-Officer (CO)

Crypto-Officer (CO)

Enable mode
Configuration mode
Disable Approved
mode
Software load
Create remote
management session
(SSH CLI)
Create, edit, and delete
operators

Create, edit, and delete
operator groups

Crypto-Officer (CO) and
User

Create SNMPv3 session

Crypto-Officer (CO)
Crypto-Officer (CO) and
User
Crypto-Officer (CO)
Crypto-Officer (CO)

Crypto-Officer (CO)

Crypto-Officer (CO)

Crypto-Officer (CO)

Crypto-Officer (CO)

Crypto-Officer (CO) and
User

Create filter rules (CLI)
Show Approved status
(CLI)
Syslog
Manage module
configuration
Import, replace, and
delete SNMP keys
Zeroize keys (serial
port only)
Change password
hash local user
password
Reboot the module
(and perform self-tests)
Utility

See section 11.1.1
Initialization for input
commands
”enable”
”conf”
”fips-mode disable”

N/A

Command response
Command response
Command response

”load upgrade”
N/A

Command response
Command response

“user
create/delete/edit
<string>”
“group
create/delete/clear
<name>”
“snmp
create/delete/edit
<community string |
user string>”
”content filter”
”show version”

Command response

Command response

Command response

Command response
Command response

“syslog add tls”
”configure”

Command response
Command response

N/A

Command response

”fips-mode disable”

Command response

”security password”

Command response

”restart regular”

Command response

Command

Command response

Table 8 - Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

4.2 Authentication Methods

The module supports role-based authentication. COs and Users must authenticate using a user ID
and password, or a Client RSA Public Key (SSH only). Secure sessions that authenticate Users have
no interface available to access other services (such as Crypto Officer services). Each CO or User
SSH session remains active (logged in) and secured until the operator logs out. The authenticated
user never leaves the Approved mode, the only services they may call are “Approved” or “Allowed

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 19 of 45

in the Approved mode” (Tables 4 and 5). Services in Table 6 would require the module to not be in
Approved mode and would require a re-initialization of the module.
There  is  no  default  password,  and  passwords  are  configured  while  creating  the  operators
(CO/User) during initialization (Section 11.1.1).

The authentication mechanisms used in the module are listed in Table 9.

Role

Authentication Method

Crypto-Officer

Password

Authentication Strength
The module supports password
authentication internally. For
password authentication done by
the module, passwords are required
to be at minimum 8 characters in
length, and at maximum 64 bytes
(number of characters is dependent
on the character set used by
system). An 8-character password
allowing all printable American
Standard Code for Information
Interchange (ASCII) characters (95)
with repetition equates to a 1: (958),
or 1:6,634,204,312,890,625 chance
of false acceptance. The Crypto-
Officer may connect locally using
the serial port or remotely after
establishing a SSH session. The
fastest network connection
supported by the module is 1000
Mbps.  Hence at most (1000 ×10^6 ×
60 = 6 × 10^10 =) 60,000,000,000
bits of data can be transmitted in
one minute.  Therefore, the
probability that a random attempt
will succeed or a false acceptance
will occur in one minute is:   1 :
[95^8 possible passwords / ((6
×10^10 bits per minute) / 64 bits per
password)] 1: (95^8 possible
passwords / 937,500,000 passwords
per minute) This equals 1: 7,076,484
or 1 in 7.0 million; this is less than
1:100,000 as required by FIPS 140-3.

Password (“Enabled” Mode)  The module supports password

authentication internally. For
password authentication done by
the module, passwords are required
to be at least 8 characters in length
and maximum of 64 bytes (number

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 20 of 45

Role

Authentication Method

Authentication Strength

of characters is dependent on the
character set used by system). An 8-
character password allowing all
printable American Standard Code
for Information Interchange (ASCII)
characters (95) with repetition
equates to a 1: (958), or
1:6,634,204,312,890,625 chance of
false acceptance. This password is
entered by the Crypto-Officer to
enter the “enabled” mode; this is
entered locally through the serial
port or remotely after establishing
an SSH session. The fastest network
connection supported by the
module is 1000 Mbps. Hence at
most (1000 ×10^6 × 60 = 6 × 10^10
=) 60,000,000,000 bits of data can
be transmitted in one minute.
Therefore, the probability that a
random attempt will succeed or a
false acceptance will occur in one
minute is: 1 : [95^8 possible
passwords / ((6 ×10^10 bits per
minute) / 64 bits per password)] 1:
(95^8 possible passwords /
937,500,000 passwords per minute)
This equals 1: 7,076,484 or 1 in 7.0
million; this is less than 1:100,000 as
required by FIPS 140-3.
The module supports password
authentication internally. For
password authentication done by
the module, passwords are required
to be at least 8 characters in length
and maximum of 64 bytes (number
of characters is dependent on the
character set used by system). An 8-
character password allowing all
printable American Standard Code
for Information Interchange (ASCII)
characters (95) with repetition
equates to a 1:(958), or
1:6,634,204,312,890,625 chance of
false acceptance. This password is
entered by the Crypto-Officer and is
required when using the serial port

Password (“Setup”)

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 21 of 45

Role

Authentication Method

Public keys

User

Password

Authentication Strength
to access the Setup Console portion
of the CLI. The fastest network
connection supported by the
module is 1000 Mbps. Hence at
most (1000 ×10^6 × 60 = 6 × 10^10
=) 60,000,000,000 bits of data can
be transmitted in one minute.
Therefore, the probability that a
random attempt will succeed or a
false acceptance will occur in one
minute is: 1 : [95^8 possible
passwords / ((6 ×10^10 bits per
minute) / 64 bits per password)] 1:
(95^8 possible passwords /
937,500,000 passwords per minute)
This equals 1: 7,076,484 or 1 in 7.0
million; this is less than 1:100,000 as
required by FIPS 140-3.
The module supports using RSA keys
for authentication of Crypto-Officers
during SSH. Using conservative
estimates and equating a 2048-bit
RSA key to a 112-bit symmetric key,
the probability for a random
attempt to succeed is 1:2112 or 1:
5.19 x 1033. The fastest network
connection supported by the
module is 1000 Mbps. Hence at
most (1000 ×10^6 × 60 = 6 × 10^10
=) 60,000,000,000 bits of data can
be transmitted in one minute.
Therefore, the probability that a
random attempt will succeed or a
false acceptance will occur in one
minute is less than 1: (2^112 /
6×10^10), or 1:
86,538,280,975,580,460,475,508,
which is less than 1:100,000 as
required by FIPS 140-3.
The module supports password
authentication internally. For
password authentication done by
the module, passwords are required
to be at least 8 characters in length
and maximum of 64 bytes (number
of characters is dependent on the
character set used by system). An 8-

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 22 of 45

Role

Authentication Method

Public Keys

Authentication Strength
character password allowing all
printable American Standard Code
for Information Interchange (ASCII)
characters (95) with repetition
equates to a 1:(958), or 1:
6,634,204,312,890,625 chances of
false acceptance. The User may
connect remotely after establishing
a SSH session. The fastest network
connection supported by the
module is 1000 Mbps. Hence at
most (1000 ×10^6 × 60 = 6 × 10^10
=) 60,000,000,000 bits of data can
be transmitted in one minute.
Therefore, the probability that a
random attempt will succeed or a
false acceptance will occur in one
minute is: 1 : [95^8 possible
passwords / ((6 ×10^10 bits per
minute) / 64 bits per password)] 1:
(95^8 possible passwords /
937,500,000 passwords per minute)
This equals 1: 7,076,484 or 1 in 7.0
million; this is less than 1:100,000 as
required by FIPS 140-3.
The module supports using RSA keys
for authentication of Users during
SSH. Using conservative estimates
and equating a 2048-bit RSA key to a
112-bit symmetric key, the
probability for a random attempt to
succeed is 1:2112 or 1: 5.19 x 1033.
The fastest network connection
supported by the module is 1000
Mbps. Hence at most (1000 ×10^6 ×
60 = 6 × 10^10 =) 60,000,000,000
bits of data can be transmitted in
one minute. Therefore, the
probability that a random attempt
will succeed or a false acceptance
will occur in one minute is less than
1: (2^112 / 6×10^10), or 1:
86,538,280,975,580,460,475,508,
which is less than 1:100,000 as
required by FIPS 140-3.

Table 9 - Roles and Authentication

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 23 of 45

4.3 Services

Descriptions of the services available to a Crypto Officer (CO) and Users are described below in
Table 10. For each service listed below, COs and Users are assumed to already have authenticated
prior to attempting to execute the service. Please note that the keys and CSPs listed in the table
indicate the type of access required using the following notation:

•  G = Generate: The module generates or derives the SSP

•  R = Read: The SSP is read from the module (e.g. the SSP is output)
•  W = Write: The SSP is updated, imported, or written to the module
•  E = Execute: The module uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation
•

Z = Zeroise: The module zeroizes the SSP.

4.3.1 Crypto Officer Services

Descriptions of the FIPS 140-3 relevant services available to the Crypto-Officer role are provided
in Table 10 below. Additional services that do not access SSPs can be found in the following
documents:

•  ProxySG Content Policy Language Reference, Version 7.4
•  ProxySG Command Line Interface Reference, Version 7.4

The link for all documentation can be found here:
https://techdocs.broadcom.com/us/en/symantec-security-software/web-and-network-
security/proxysg/7-4.html

4.3.2 User Role Services

Descriptions of the FIPS 140-3 relevant services available to the User role are provided in Table
10 below. Additional services that do not access SSPs can be found in the following documents:

•  ProxySG Command Line Interface Reference, Version 7.4

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 24 of 45

Service

Description

Module
initialization

Set up the first-time
network configuration, CO
username and password,
and enable the module in
the Approved mode

Approved Security
Functions
N/A

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

CO

Crypto Officer
Password
“Enabled” mode
password
“Setup” Password

Access Rights to Keys
and/or SSPs
Crypto Officer
Password: W
“Enabled” mode
password: W
“Setup” Password: W

Enable mode

Configuration
mode

Disable Approved
mode

Manage the module in the
“enabled” mode of
operation, granting access
to higher privileged
commands
Manage the module in the
“configuration” mode of
operation, allowing
permanent system
modification to be made
Take the module out of the
Approved mode of
operation and restore it to
factory state

N/A

“Enabled” mode
password

CO

W

N/A

N/A

CO

N/A

N/A

CO

“Enabled” mode
password
MEK
SSH Session Key
SSH Session
Authentication Key
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
Seed

“Enabled” mode
Password: W
MEK: Z
SSH Session Key: Z
SSH Session
Authentication Key: Z

SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG Seed

Indicator

“FIPS mode
enabled” will
be visible on
the serial
console upon
the successful
completion of
the
cryptographic
algorithm self-
tests
Successful
completion of
the service and
enable mode
prompt
Successful
completion of
the service and
configure
mode prompt
N/A

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 25 of 45

Service

Description

Approved Security
Functions

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG Key
Value
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
V Value

Indicator

Access Rights to Keys
and/or SSPs
: Z
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG Key
Value: Z
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
V Value: Z

Software load

Loads new external
software and performs an
integrity test using an RSA
digital signature

RSA Signature
Verification,
SHA2-256

Cert. #A3192

Integrity Test Public
Key (not an SSP)

CO

WE

Create remote
management
session (SSH CLI)

Manage the module
through the CLI (SSH)
remotely

CO,
User

RSA Signature
verification, KAS-
FFC-SSC, AES CTR,
GCM, CBC,
CTR_DRBG,
HMAC, SSH KDF,
SHA-1, SHA2-224,
SHA2-256, SHA2-
384, SHA2-512,
SafePrimes, RSA
KeyGen, RSA
SigGen, ENT (P),
CKG

RSA Public Key
RSA Private Key
Client RSA Public Key
DH public key
DH private key
SSH Session Key
SSH Session
Authentication Key
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
Seed
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
Key Value

RSA Public Key: RE
RSA Private Key: RE
Client RSA Public Key:
RE
DH public key: GWRE
DH private key: GWRE
SSH Session Key:
GWRE
SSH Session
Authentication Key:
GWRE
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG Seed
: GE

Image loaded
successfully
(for verified
image).

Image loading
fails (when
image
verification
fails)
Successful
connection to
the module via
SSH and
“System is in
FIPS mode” is
displayed after
executing
“show version”
command and
“Diffie-
hellman”
groups
displayed after

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 26 of 45

Approved Security
Functions
Cert. #A2936

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
V Value
MEK

N/A

Crypto Officer
Password
User Password

CO

Access Rights to Keys
and/or SSPs
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
Key Value: GE
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
V Value: GE
MEK: RE
Crypto Officer
Password: WREZ
User Password: WREZ

Indicator

executing “kex-
algs view”
command

N/A

N/A

N/A

CO

N/A

N/A

Service

Description

Create, edit, and delete
operators (these may be
Cos or Users); define
operator’s accounts, change
password, and assign
permissions
Create, edit, and delete
operator groups; define
common sets of operator
permissions

Create, edit, and
delete operators

Create, edit, and
delete operator
groups

Create filter rules
(CLI)

Show Approved
status (CLI)

Create filters that are
applied to user data
streams
The command “show
version” will display if the
module is configured in
Approved mode

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

CO

N/A

N/A

CO,
User

N/A

Successful
completion of
the service and
“System is in
FIPS mode” is
displayed after
executing
“show version”
command

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 27 of 45

Service

Syslog

Description

Setup syslog for logging

Approved Security
Functions
RSA Signature
verification, KAS-
FFC-SSC, AES CTR,
GCM, CBC,
CTR_DRBG,
HMAC, TLS v1.2
KDF, TLS v1.3 KDF,
SHA-1, SHA2-224,
SHA2-256, SHA2-
384, SHA2-512,
SafePrimes, RSA
KeyGen, RSA
SigGen, ENT (P),
CKG

Cert. #A2936

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

CO

RSA Public Key
RSA Private Key
Client RSA Public Key
DH public key
DH private key
TLS Session Key
TLS Session
Authentication Key
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
Seed
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
Key Value
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
V Value
MEK

Import, replace,
and delete SNMP
keys

N/A

Create, edit, and delete
operators (these may be
COs or Users); define
operator’s accounts, change
password, and assign
permissions

CO

SNMPv3 Privacy Key
SNMPv3 Session
Authentication Key
SNMPv3 Password
MEK

Create SNMPv3
session

Monitor the module using
SNMPv3

SNMPv3 KDF

Cert. #A2936

SNMPv3 Privacy Key
SNMPv3 Session
Authentication Key
SNMPv3 Password

CO,
User

Access Rights to Keys
and/or SSPs
RSA Public Key: RE
RSA Private Key: RE
Client RSA Public Key:
RE
DH public key: GWRE
DH private key: GWRE
TLS Session Key:
GWRE
TLS Session
Authentication Key:
GWRE
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG Seed
: GE
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
Key Value: GE
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
V Value: GE
MEK: RE
SNMPv3 Privacy Key:
W
SNMPv3 Session
Authentication Key:
W
SNMPv3 Password: W
MEK: RE
SNMPv3 Privacy Key:
RE

Indicator

Connection
established to
syslog server
successfully
and “tls 1.2, tls
1.3” versions
and “dhe”
cipher suites
displayed after
executing
“view ssl-
device-profile
” command

N/A

Successful
completion of
the service and
“System is in

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 28 of 45

Service

Description

Approved Security
Functions

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

MEK

Manage module
configuration

Backup or restore the
module configuration

SSH KDF
AES-CBC (non-
conformant)

Cert. #A2936

Zeroize keys (serial
port only)

N/A

Zeroize keys by taking the
module out of the
Approved mode and
restoring it to a factory
state. This will zeroize all
CSPs. The zeroization occurs
while the module is still in
Approved-mode

CO

CO

RSA Public Key
RSA Private Key
SSH Session Key
SSH Session
Authentication Key
Crypto Officer
Password
User Password
“Enabled” mode
password
MEK

MEK
SSH Session Key
SSH Session
Authentication Key
TLS Session Key
TLS Session
Authentication Key
DH private key

Indicator

FIPS mode” is
displayed after
executing
“show version”
command

Successful
completion of
the service and
“System is in
FIPS mode” is
displayed after
executing
“show version”
command and
“Diffie-
hellman”
groups
displayed after
executing “kex-
algs view”
command

Successful
reboot after
executing “fips-
mode disable”

Access Rights to Keys
and/or SSPs
SNMPv3 Session
Authentication Key:
RE
SNMPv3 Password: RE
MEK: RE

RSA Public Key: WRE
RSA Private Key: WRE
SSH Session Key:
GWRE
SSH Session
Authentication Key:
GWRE
Crypto Officer
Password: WRE
User Password: WRE
“Enabled” mode
password: WRE
MEK: RE

MEK: Z
SSH Session Key: Z
SSH Session
Authentication Key: Z
TLS Session Key: Z
TLS Session
Authentication Key: Z
DH private key: Z

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 29 of 45

Service

Description

Change password
hash local user
password

Change Crypto Officer
password

Approved Security
Functions
PBKDFv2

Cert. #A2936

Reboot the module
(and perform self-
tests)

Perform periodic self-test
on demand by power
cycling the host platform

N/A

Utility

Services that do not use any
SSPs

N/A

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

Crypto Officer
Password
MEK

DH public key
DH private key
SSH Session Key
SSH Session
Authentication Key
TLS Session Key
TLS Session
Authentication Key
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
Seed
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
Key Value
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
V Value
MEK
N/A

CO

CO

CO,
User

Access Rights to Keys
and/or SSPs
Crypto Officer
Password: GW
MEK: RE

DH public key: Z
DH private key: Z
SSH Session Key: Z
SSH Session
Authentication Key: Z
TLS Session Key: Z
TLS Session
Authentication Key: Z
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
Seed: Z
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
Key Value: Z
SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
V Value: Z
MEK: RE
N/A

Indicator

Successful
completion of
the service and
“System is in
FIPS mode” is
displayed after
executing
“show version”
command
“FIPS mode
enabled” will
be visible on
the serial
console upon
the successful
completion of
the
cryptographic
algorithm self-
tests

N/A

Table 10 - Approved Services

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 30 of 45

Service

Proxy Traffic

Description

Algorithms Accessed

Role

Indicator

Proxy Traffic involves the use of TLS
v1.0/1.1 sessions, which leverage MD5

MD5, TLS v1.0/1.1 KDF

CO, User

Successful
completion of the
service and “tls 1, tls
1.1” versions
displayed after
executing “view ssl-
device-profile
” command
Successful
completion of the
service and “ecdhe”
cipher suites
displayed after
executing “kex-algs
view” command

Create remote
management session
(CLI)

Manage the module through the CLI
(SSH) remotely

KAS-ECC-SSC

CO, User

The CO and User roles may monitor the health and status of the modules using SNMPv3. SNMPv3 privacy and authentication keys must be generated
by an external application as the module is not capable of generating the keys internally. The keys are not tied to the CO’s CLI credentials

Table 11 - Non-Approved Services

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 31 of 45

4.4 Self-initiated Cryptographic Output Capability
The module supports self-initiated cryptographic capability to establish secure connections to external
services for licensing and subscription downloads. To prevent inadvertent output due to a single error,
this capability is turned on only after obtaining confirmation from the CO:

To properly function, this appliance will need to initiate cryptographically secure connections to external
services such as licensing and subscription downloads.
Do you wish to proceed? (y/n)[n]: y
Please enter‘ ’y' again to confirm? (y/n)[n]:

5.

Software/Firmware Security

The module performs pre-operational integrity test using HMAC-SHA-1 and RSA 2048 Signature
Verification with SHA2-256. The integrity test can be executed on demand by power-cycling the host
platform.

The form of the module is a single image file "7.4.0.0_build_279954_system_gdb.bcsi". The module
performs software loading and software load test but does not support complete image replacement.

6.  Operational Environment

Per FIPS 140-3 specifications the module operates in a modifiable operational environment. The module
runs on general purpose computers listed in Table 2. Additionally, the module only allows the loading of
software through the software load test, which ensures the image is appropriately signed by Broadcom,
Inc. As such, the applicable modifiable operational environment requirements do apply.

Please refer to Table 2 of this document regarding the Cryptographic Module Tested Configurations.

Except guidelines and installation instructions specified in Sections 2 and 11 of this Security Policy, no
other security rules or restrictions to the configuration of the operational environment are required.

Note: The platforms listed in Table 3 are vendor-affirmed per FIPS 140-3. Broadcom, Inc. has verified the
module's functionality in the operational environments specified in Table 3 and confirmed that it
operates in the same manner as the operational environments listed in Table 2.

7.  Physical Security

The module type is software-hybrid and has a multi-chip standalone embodiment running on a production
grade chassis.

8.  Non-Invasive Security
This section is not applicable. The module does not implement non-invasive security measures.

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 32 of 45

Generation

Import/Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation

Use & Related keys

9.

Sensitive Security Parameter Management

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

MEK8
(CSP)

Integrity Test
Public Key (not
an SSP)

256 bits

112 bits

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

AES CBC
CKG
A2936

RSA
HMAC-SHA-1
SHA2-256
A3192

Internally
generated via
Approved
DRBG
Externally
generated

RSA Public Key
(PSP)

112, 128,
and 152
bits

Modules’
public key is
internally
generated via
Approved
DRBG

RSA

KDF TLS 1.2,
1.3
KDF SSH
SHA-1
SHA2
CKG
A2936

Stored in
plaintext on
non-volatile
memory
Stored in
plaintext on
non-volatile
memory

By disabling the
Approved mode
of operation

Overwritten
after upgrade by
the key in the
newly signed
image

Encrypting Crypto
Officer Password,
User Password, RSA
Private Key
Verifying the integrity
of the system image
during upgrade or
downgrade

Module’s public
key is deleted by
command

Negotiating TLS or SSH
sessions

Stored in
encrypted
form on
non- volatile
memory

Never imported

N/A

N/A

N/A

Never exits the
module
Imported in
encrypted form
via a secure SSH
session (new key
is imported only
with a new
image)

Never exits the
module
Modules’ public
key can be
imported from a
back-up
configuration

Output during
TLS/SSH9
negotiation in
plaintext

8 Master Encryption Key
9 SSH session negotiation only uses RSA key pairs of 2048-bits.  RSA key pairs of 3072-bits and 4096-bits are only used for TLS session negotiation.

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 33 of 45

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import/Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation

Use & Related keys

Output during
TLS negotiation
for CAC
authentication

Exits in
encrypted format
when performing
a module
configuration
backup
Imported in
plaintext

Never output

N/A

Internally
generated via
Approved
DRBG

Imported in
encrypted form
via a secure SSH
session

Imported in
plaintext via a
directly attached
cable to the
serial port

Exported
encrypted format

Client RSA Public
Key
(PSP)

RSA Private Key
(CSP)

80, 112,
128,
and 152
bits

112, 128,
and 152
bits

RSA
KDF TLS
KDF SSH
SHA-1
SHA2
A2936
RSA

KDF TLS 1.2,
1.3
KDF SSH
SHA-1
SHA2
CKG
A2936

N/A

N/A

Other entities’
public keys are
cleared by
power cycle

Negotiating TLS or SSH
sessions

Inaccessible by
zeroizing
encrypting MEK

Negotiating TLS or SSH
sessions

Other
entities’
public keys
reside on
volatile
memory
Stored in
encrypted
form on
non- volatile
memory

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 34 of 45

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import/Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation

Use & Related keys

DH public key
(PSP)

112 bits

DH private key
(CSP)

112 bits

TLS Session key
(CSP)

128, 192,
and 256
bits

KAS-FFC-SSC
SP800-56Arev3
SafePrimes
CKG
A2936

KAS-FFC-SSC
SP800-56Arev3
SafePrimes
CKG
A2936
AES CBC,
CTR, or GCM
CKG
A2936

Module’s
public key is
internally
generated via
Approved
DRBG
Internally
generated via
Approved
DRBG

Internally
generated via
Approved
DRBG

when performing
a module
configuration
backup
Imported in
plaintext

Exported in
plaintext

N/A

Never exits the
module

N/A

Output in
encrypted form
during TLS
protocol
handshake

The keys are
established in
accordance
with SP800-
56Arev3

Stored in
plaintext on
volatile
memory

Rebooting the
module/
Removing
power

Negotiating TLS or SSH
sessions

Stored in
plaintext on
volatile
memory

Rebooting the
module/
Removing
power

Stored in
plaintext on
volatile
memory

Rebooting the
module/
Removing
power

Negotiating TLS or SSH
sessions

Encrypting TLS data

SSH Session key
(CSP)

128, 192,
and 256
bits

AES CBC,
CTR, or GCM
CKG
A2936

Internally
generated via
Approved
DRBG

Output in
encrypted form
during SSH
protocol
handshake

The keys are
established in
accordance
with SP800-
56Arev3

Stored in
plaintext on
volatile
memory

Rebooting the
module/
Removing
power

Encrypting SSH data

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 35 of 45

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import/Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation

Use & Related keys

TLS Session
Authentication
key
(CSP)

128, 256,
384 and
512 bits

HMAC
SHA2
A2936

Internally
generated

Never exits the
module

SSH Session
Authentication
key (CSP)

128, 256,
384 and
512 bits

HMAC
SHA2
A2936

Internally
generated

Never exits the
module

PBKDFv2
A2936

Externally
generated

Crypto Officer
Password (CSP)

Minimum
of
eight (8)
and
maximum
of 64
bytes long
printable
character
string

Enters the
module in
encrypted form
via a secure SSH
session

Enters the
module in
plaintext via a
directly attached

The keys are
established in
accordance
with SP800-
56Arev3

The keys are
established in
accordance
with SP800-
56Arev3

N/A

Resides in
volatile
memory in
plaintext

Rebooting the
module/
Removing
power

Data authentication
for TLS sessions

Resides in
volatile
memory in
plaintext

Rebooting the
module/
Removing
power

Data authentication
for SSH sessions

Inaccessible by
zeroizing the
encrypting MEK

Locally
authenticating a CO
for CLI

Stored in
encrypted
form on
non- volatile
memory

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 36 of 45

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

User Password
(CSP)

Generation

Import/Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation

Use & Related keys

Locally
authenticating a User
for CLI

N/A

Stored in
encrypted
form on
non- volatile
memory

Inaccessible by
zeroizing the
encrypting MEK

Used by the CO to
enter the “privileged”
or “enabled” mode
when using the CLI

cable to the
serial port

Exits in
encrypted form
via a secure TLS
session for
external
authentication

Exits in
encrypted format
when performing
a module
configuration
backup
Enters the
module in
encrypted form
via a secure SSH
session

Enters the
module in
plaintext via a
directly attached
cable to the
serial port

N/A

Externally
generated

“Enabled” mode
password
(CSP)

Minimum
of eight
(8) and
maximum
of 64
bytes long
printable
character
string

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 37 of 45

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import/Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation

Use & Related keys

Exits in
encrypted form
via a secure TLS
session for
external
authentication

Exits in
encrypted format
when performing
a module
configuration
backup
Enters the
module in
plaintext via a
directly attached
cable to the
serial port

Never exits the
module

Never exits the
module

N/A

N/A

Stored in
encrypted
form on
non- volatile
memory

Inaccessible by
zeroizing the
encrypting MEK

Used by the CO to
secure access to the
CLI when accessed
over the serial port

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Rebooting the
module/
Removing
power

Seeding material for
the SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG

N/A

Externally
generated

DRBG
A2936

Internally
generated

Minimum
of eight
(8) and
maximum
of 64
bytes long
printable
character
string

384 bits

“Setup” Password
(CSP)

SP800-
90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
Seed
(CSP)10

10 (Added per IG D.L)

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 38 of 45

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import/Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation

Use & Related keys

256 bits

ENT (P)

SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG
Entropy11
(CSP)10

Internally
generated
within the
module’s
TOEPP

Never exits the
module

N/A

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Rebooting the
module/
Removing
power

Entropy material for
the SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG

SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG Key
Value
(CSP)10

SP800-
90Arev1
CTR_DRBG V
Value
(CSP)10
SNMPv3
Privacy Key
(CSP)

128, 192
and 256
bits

128, 192
and 256
bits

DRBG
A2936

DRBG
A2936

Internally
generated

Never exits the
module

N/A

Internally
generated

Never exits the
module

N/A

128 bits

SNMP KDF
A2936

Internally
generated

Never exits the
module

N/A

Rebooting the
module/
Removing
power

Rebooting the
module/
Removing
power

Used for the SP 800-
90Arev1 CTR_DRBG

Used for the SP 800-
90Arev1 CTR_DRBG

Inaccessible by
zeroizing the
encrypting MEK

Used for SNMPv3
session

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Plaintext in
volatile
memory

Stored in
encrypted
form on
non-volatile
memory

11 The Entropy required by the Approved SP800-90Arev1 CTR_DRBG (with AES-256) is supplied by the ENT (P)

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 39 of 45

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security
Function and
Cert. Number

Generation

Import/Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroisation

Use & Related keys

SNMPv3
Session
Authenticati
on Key
(CSP)
SNMPv3
Password
(CSP)

80 bits
(SHA1)

SNMP KDF
A2936

Internally
generated

Never exits the
module

N/A

8 bytes
password

SNMP KDF
A2936

Externally
generated

N/A

Enters the
module in
plaintext via a
directly attached
cable to the
serial port
Table 12 - SSPs

Inaccessible by
zeroizing the
encrypting MEK

Used for SNMPv3
session

Inaccessible by
zeroizing the
encrypting MEK

Used for SNMPv3
session

Stored in
encrypted
form on
non-volatile
memory
Stored in
encrypted
form on
non-volatile
memory

Keys and passwords that exit the module during a configuration backup are encrypted using an Approved encryption algorithm via the TLS or SSH
session key. During the backup process, the CO can additionally use either AES-128 CBC or AES-256 CBC mode to encrypt the archive file; however,
there is no security claimed on this use of encryption because the key used for encryption is generated using a non-conformant key derivation
function.

Zeroisation:
The CO can return the module to its factory state by entering the “enabled” mode on the CLI, followed by the “fips-mode disable” command. This
command will automatically reboot the module and zeroize the MEK. The RSA Private Key, Crypto Officer password, User password, “Enabled” mode
password, “Setup” password, SNMP Privacy key, and  the SNMP Session Authentication key are stored encrypted  by the MEK. Once the MEK is
zeroized, decryption involving the MEK becomes impossible, making these CSPs unobtainable by an attacker.

In addition, rebooting the module causes all temporary keys stored in volatile memory (SSH Session key, TLS session key, DRBG entropy values, and
ENT  (P)  entropy  values)  to  be  zeroized.  The  Crypto-Officer  must  wait  until  the  module  has  successfully  rebooted  to  verify  that  zeroization  has
completed.

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 40 of 45

Entropy sources

NIST SP800-90B compliant ENT
(P)

Minimum number of bits of
entropy
256-bit
The estimated amount of
entropy per the source’s output
bit is 0.6.

Details

The Entropy required by the
Approved SP800-90Arev1
CTR_DRBG (with AES-256) is
supplied by the ENT (P).

Table 13 - Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification

10.  Self-Tests

If the module fails the Integrity Test (Pre-operational Self-Test), the following error is printed to the
CLI (when being accessed via the serial port):

PKCS7 Signature verification failed, signature does not match.

If any other self-tests fail, the following error is printed to the CLI (when being accessed via the serial
port):

**********************SYSTEMERROR***********************

The SG Appliance has failed the FIPS Self test.

System startup cannot continue.

******************SYSTEM STARTUP HALTED****************

E)xit FIPS mode and reinitialize system

R)estart and retry FIPS self-
test Selection:

When  either  of  these  errors  occurs,  the  module  enters  hard  error  state  and  halts  operation  and
provides no functionality.  The only way to clear  the  error and resume normal  operation is for the
Crypto-Officer to reboot the module. The status output provided above is shown only over the CLI
(when being accessed via the serial port).
The  sections  below  describe  the  self-tests  performed  by  the  module.  All  the  self-tests  specified  in
Section 10.1 are implemented in VA Blue Coat Boot Loader v5.31. All the self-tests specified in Section
10.2 are implemented in SGOS Cryptographic Library v5.1.1.

10.1 Pre-operational Self-Tests

•  Software integrity check using RSA SigVer (2048-bit with SHA2-256) and HMAC-SHA-112,13 (A3192)

10.2 Conditional Self-Tests

Conditional cryptographic algorithm self-tests (CASTs):

12 The preoperational self-tests are performed by VA Blue Coat Boot Loader v5.31 library which covers entire image
file “7.4.0.0_build_279954_system_gdb.bcsi”.
13 The module executes the RSA SigVer 2048-bit and HMAC-SHA-1 KATs prior to running the pre-operational self-
test. Both the integrity tests are sequentially performed on the entire image file
“7.4.0.0_build_279954_system_gdb.bcsi”.

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 41 of 45

CAVP Cert. A2936:

•  AES-ECB Encrypt KAT (128-bit) (covers AES-CBC)
•  AES-ECB Decrypt KAT (128-bit) (covers AES-CBC)
•  AES-GCM Encrypt KAT (256-bit)
•  AES-GCM Decrypt KAT (256-bit)
•  SHA-1 KAT
•  SHA2-256 KAT (covered by HMAC-SHA2-256 KAT)
•  SHA2-512 KAT
•  SHA3-256 KAT (additional KAT, not required by any service/algorithm)
•  HMAC-SHA2-256 KAT
•  SP800-90Arev1 CTR-DRBG KAT using AES-128
•  SP800-56Arev3 DH “Primitive Z” KAT (2048)
•  PBKDF KAT
•  TLS 1.2 KDF KAT
•  TLS 1.3 KDF KAT
•  SSH KDF KAT
•  SNMP KDF KAT
•  SP 800-90B Start-up health tests
•  Section 11 CTR_DRBG CAST (Instantiate, Reseed, Generate, Uninstantiate)
•  RSA Signature KAT (2048-bit with SHA2-256 and PKCS v1.5)
•  RSA Verification KAT (2048-bit with SHA2-256 and PKCS v1.5)
•  SP 800-90B Continuous health tests
•  Software Load Test using RSA Signature Verification (2048-bit)

CAVP Cert. A3192:

•  RSA Verification KAT (2048-bit with SHA2-256)
•  HMAC-SHA1 KAT

Conditional pair-wise consistency tests (PCTs):

•  RSA Pairwise consistency check upon generation of a keypair
•  DH Pairwise consistency check upon generation of a keypair

No data output occurs via the data output interface until all pre-operational self-tests have been
completed.

The module also performs a validity check on the installed license. If the license is not valid, the module
will not operate.

Self-tests can be executed on demand by rebooting the module.

Note the module includes additional self-tests for algorithms that are not callable or used by any service.

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 42 of 45

11.  Life-Cycle Assurance

The  module  can  be  delivered  pre-installed  on  the  SSP-S410  appliance,  or  via  the  Broadcom  Secure
download portal: https://support.broadcom.com/security/download-center

11.1 Secure Operation/Management

The module meets FIPS-140-3 Level 1 requirements. The section below describes how to place and keep
the module in Approved mode of operation.

Caveat: This guide assumes that a virtual environment is already set up and ready for accepting a new
virtual appliance installation.

The Crypto-Officer is responsible for initialization and security-relevant configuration and management
of the module. Please see the ProxySG Command Line Interface Reference, November 16 2022 for more
information on configuring and maintaining the module.

Caveat: While the Proxy SG may hold and boot from multiple software images, only the software image
documented in this Security Policy (SGOS Software Version: 7.4) may be used for booting to remain
compliant. Booting from any other software image will void the validation.

11.1.1 Initialization

Physical access to the module’s host hardware shall be limited to the Crypto-Officer, and the CO shall
be responsible for putting the module into the Approved mode.

Please read the following guide for installation direction for the ESXi operational environment:
https://techdocs.broadcom.com/us/en/symantec-security-software/web-and-network-
security/proxysg/7-4/Overview_ISG_SGW_VA.html.

Once the module has been configured based on the above guide, the CO must place the module in the
Approved mode using the Console Tab which provides access to the virtual serial connection.

1.  Press Enter three times.

When the system displays Welcome to the SG Appliance Setup Console , it is ready for the first-time
network configuration.

2.  Enter the properties for the following:

a.

Interface number

b.

IP address

c.

IP subnet mask

d.

IP gateway

e.  DNS server parameters

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 43 of 45

3.  The module will prompt for the console account authentication information:

You must configure the console user account now.

Enter console username:

Enter console password:
Enter enable password:

4.  The module will prompt to secure serial port, select ‘n’

5.  When  the  system  displays  Successful  Configuration  Setup, press  Enter  to  confirm  the

configuration.

6.  Press Enter three times.

7.  Select option #1 for the Command Line Interface.

8.  Type enable and press Enter.

9.  Enter the enable mode password.

10. Enter the following command: fips-mode enable.

When  prompted  for  confirmation,  select  Y  to  confirm.  Once  the  reinitialization  is  complete,  the
module displays the prompt “The system is in FIPS mode”.

•  NOTE 1: The fips-mode enable command causes the device to power cycle, zeroing the Master
Encryption Key and returning the configuration values set in steps 1 and 2 to their factory state.

•  NOTE 2: This command is only accepted via the CLI when accessed over the serial port.

11. After the system has finished rebooting, press Enter three times.

12. Enter the properties for the following:

a.

Interface number

b.

IP address

c.

IP subnet mask

d.

IP gateway

e.  DNS server parameters

13. The module will prompt for the console account credentials:

You  must  configure  the  console  user

account now.

Enter console username:

Enter console password:

Enter enable password:

14. Configure the setup password to secure the serial port which must be configured while in Approved

mode. The system displays the following:

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 44 of 45

The serial port must be secured, and a setup password must be configured. Enter setup

password:

15. Choose Yes or No to restrict workstation access.
16. The operator should not configure below ciphers to be in approved mode of operation:

•  TLS v1.0/1.1 for syslog
•  ECDH cipher-suites for SSH (curve25519-sha256@libssh.org, ecdh-sha2-nistp521, ecdh-

sha2-nistp384, ecdh-sha2-nistp256) and syslog (ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA284, ECDHE-
RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384, ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256,
ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA, ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA)

17. When creating or importing key pairs, such as during the restoration of an archived backup

configuration, the CO must ensure the “no-show” argument is passed over the CLI as shown in
Figure 6.

Figure 6 - no-show command

Upon completion of these initialization steps, the module is considered to be operating in Approved mode
of operation. If the steps are not followed exactly as listed here, the module could still be operational but
in a non-compliant state.

12.  Mitigation of Other Attacks

This section is not applicable. The module does not claim to mitigate any attacks beyond the FIPS 140-3
Level 1 requirements for this validation.

Symantec, A Division of Broadcom© 2024

Version (1.2)
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.

Page 45 of 45

