AudioCodes Ltd.
Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC
Software Version: 7.6

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

FIPS Security Level: 1
Document Version: 0.8

Prepared for:

Prepared by:

AudioCodes Ltd.
1 Hayarden Street
Airport City, Lod 70151
Israel

Corsec Security, Inc.
12600 Fair Lakes Circle, Suite 210
Fairfax, VA 22033
United States of America

Phone: +972 3 976 4000
www.audiocodes.com

Phone: +1 703 267 6050
www.corsec.com

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Abstract

This  is  a  non-proprietary  Cryptographic Module  Security  Policy  for the  Mediant  Virtual  Edition  SBC  and  Cloud
Edition SBC  (version: 7.6)  from  AudioCodes Ltd.  (AudioCodes). This Security Policy  describes  how the  Mediant
Virtual  Edition  SBC  and  Cloud  Edition  SBC  meet  the  security  requirements  of  Federal  Information  Processing
Standards  (FIPS)  Publication  140-3,  which  details  the  U.S.  and  Canadian  government  requirements  for
cryptographic modules. More information about the FIPS 140-3 standard and validation program is available on
the Cryptographic Module Validation Program (CMVP) website, which is maintained by the National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) and the Canadian Centre for Cyber Security (CCCS).

This document also describes how to run the module in an Approved mode of operation. This policy was prepared
as part of the Level 1 FIPS 140-3 validation of the module.

The Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC represent two deployments of the same software image
that differ only in the product labeling, which is defined by an initialization file parameter that is set by the vendor.
Collectively, these deployments are referred to in this document as “Mediant VE and CE SBCs”, “SBCs” or “the
module”.

References

This document deals only with operations and capabilities of the module in the technical terms of a FIPS 140-3
cryptographic module security policy. More information is available on the module from the following sources:

•  The AudioCodes website (www.audiocodes.com) contains information on the full line of products from

AudioCodes.

•  The search page on the CMVP website (https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/cryptographic-module-validation-
program/Validated-Modules/Search)  can  be  used  to  locate  and obtain  vendor  contact  information  for
technical or sales-related questions about the module.

Document Organization

ISO/IEC  19790  Annex  B  uses  the  same  section  naming  convention  as  ISO/IEC  19790  section  7  -  Security
requirements. For example, Annex B section B.2.1 is named “General” and B.2.2 is named “Cryptographic module
specification,” which is the same as ISO/IEC 19790 section 7.1 and section 7.2, respectively. Therefore, the format
of this Security Policy is presented in the same order as indicated in Annex B, starting with “General” and ending
with “Mitigation of other attacks.” If sections are not applicable, they have been marked as such in this document.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 2 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Table of Contents

3.
4.

1.  General..................................................................................................................................................5
Cryptographic Module Specification .......................................................................................................8
2.
Operational Environments ......................................................................................................................8
2.1
Algorithm Implementations ....................................................................................................................8
2.2
2.3
Cryptographic Boundary ...................................................................................................................... 13
2.4  Modes of Operation ............................................................................................................................. 15
Cryptographic Module Interfaces ......................................................................................................... 16
Roles, Services, and Authentication ...................................................................................................... 18
Authorized Roles .................................................................................................................................. 18
4.1
Authentication ..................................................................................................................................... 20
4.2
Externally Loaded Software ................................................................................................................. 20
4.3
Services ................................................................................................................................................ 20
4.4
5.
Software/Firmware Security ................................................................................................................ 28
6.  Operational Environment ..................................................................................................................... 29
Physical Security .................................................................................................................................. 30
7.
8.  Non-Invasive Security .......................................................................................................................... 31
Sensitive Security Parameter Management .......................................................................................... 32
9.
Keys and SSPs ....................................................................................................................................... 32
9.1
RGB Entropy Sources ........................................................................................................................... 39
9.2
10.  Self-Tests ............................................................................................................................................. 40
10.1  Pre-Operational Self-Tests ................................................................................................................... 40
10.2  Conditional Self-Tests .......................................................................................................................... 40
10.3  Self-Test Failure Handling .................................................................................................................... 41
11.  Life-Cycle Assurance ............................................................................................................................. 42
11.1  Secure Installation ............................................................................................................................... 42
Initialization ......................................................................................................................................... 42
11.2
11.3  Startup 44
11.4  Administrator Guidance ....................................................................................................................... 44
11.4.1  Default Login Password .......................................................................................................... 44
11.4.2  On-Demand Self-Tests ............................................................................................................ 44
11.4.3  Zeroization .............................................................................................................................. 44
11.4.4  Status and Versioning Information ......................................................................................... 45
11.4.5  Additional Administrator Guidance ........................................................................................ 45
11.5  Non-Administrator Guidance ............................................................................................................... 46
12.  Mitigation of Other Attacks .................................................................................................................. 47
Acronyms and Abbreviations .......................................................................................... 48
Appendix A.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 3 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

List of Tables

Table 1 – Security Levels .............................................................................................................................................7
Table 2 – Tested Operational Environments ..............................................................................................................8
Table 3 – Vendor Affirmed Operational Environments ..............................................................................................8
Table 4 – Cryptographic Algorithm Sources ...............................................................................................................9
Table 5 – Approved Algorithms ..................................................................................................................................9
Table 6 – Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security Claimed .... 13
Table 7 – Ports and Interfaces ................................................................................................................................. 16
Table 8 – Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output .......................................................................................... 18
Table 9 – Approved Services ................................................................................................................................... 21
Table 10 – SSPs ........................................................................................................................................................ 32
Table 11 – Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification ............................................................ 39
Table 12 – Acronyms and Abbreviations ................................................................................................................. 48

List of Figures

Figure 1 – GPC Block Diagram ................................................................................................................................. 14
Figure 2 – AudioCodes Mediant VE and CE SBCs Cryptographic Boundary ............................................................ 15

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 4 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

1.  General

AudioCodes Ltd. (hereafter referred to as AudioCodes) is a leading vendor of advanced networking and media
processing  solutions  for  the  for  the  digital  workplace.  The  AudioCodes  Mediant  family  of  Session  Border
Controllers (SBCs) offers a line of versatile IP1 communications platforms that connect VoIP2 and TDM3 networks,
built on years of carrier-grade VoIP deployments and expertise. AudioCode’s SBCs provide the interoperability,
security, and quality assurance that service providers need to connect their enterprise and residential customers
reliably and securely to SIP4 trunk and hosted telephony services.

The  Mediant  Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC  each  forms  an  effective  demarcation point  between a
business’s  VoIP  network  and  the  service  provider’s  SIP  trunk,  performing  SIP  protocol  mediation  and  media
handling (interoperability), and securing the enterprise VoIP network. It can function as a peering SBC, access SBC,
or enterprise SBC.

The AudioCodes Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC are software-based SBCs that may be installed
in a virtual environment or hosted in a cloud computing environment.

The SBCs provide proven performance, resiliency, and security featuring real-time encryption (VoIP signaling and
media  traffic),  DSP 5-based  media  transcoding,  a  flexible  and  intuitive  SIP  routing  engine,  and  an  integrated
WebRTC gateway. Some of the network and security features provided by the SBCs include:

•  SIP B2BUA6
•  SIP Interworking
•  Extensive PBX7 interoperability
•  Transport Mediation between SIP over UDP8/TCP9/TLS10/WebSocket, IPv4/IPv6, RTP11/SRTP12

SDES13/DTLS14

•  Header Manipulation
•  Local and far-end NAT15 traversal
•

Integrated WebRTC gateway with support for WebSocket, Opus, VP816 video coder, lite ICE17, DTLS, RTP
multiplexing, and secure RTCP18 with feedback

1 IP – Internet Protocol
2 VoIP – Voice Over Internet Protocol
3 TDM – Time-Division Multiplexing
4 SIP – Session Initiation Protocol
5 DSP – Digital Signal Processing
6 B2BUA – Back-to-Back User Agent
7 PBX – Private Branch Exchange
8 UDP – User Datagram Protocol
9 TCP – Transport Control Protocol
10 TLS – Transport Layer Security
11 RTP – Real-time Transport Protocol
12 SRTP – Secure Real-time Transport Protocol
13 SDES – Session Description Protocol Security Descriptions
14 DTLS – Datagram Transport Layer Security
15 NAT – Network Address Translation
16 VP8 – Video coding format developed by Google
17 ICE – Interactive Connectivity Establishment
18 RTCP – Real-Time Transport Control Protocol

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 5 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

•  Denial of service protection with DoS19/DDoS20 line rate protection,
•  VOIP firewall and deep packet inspections with rogue RTP detection and prevention
•  Encryption and authentication with support for TLS, DTLS, SRTP, HTTPS21, SSH22, SFTP23, and SNMP24
•  Topology hiding and user privacy
•  Traffic  separation  with  VLAN 25/physical  interface  separation  for  multiple  media,  control  and  OAMP 26

interfaces

•  Call Admission Control
•  Full Quality of Experience (QoE) monitoring: Jitter, Packet Loss, Delay and MOS27

Management of the SBC is accomplished via the following methods:

•  Command Line Interface (CLI), which is accessible using the following means:

o
o

o

remotely via Ethernet management ports over SSH
locally via direct attachment to the RS-232 serial port using a VT100 terminal or a general-purpose
computer with a terminal emulation program
locally via direct attachment using a VGA monitor and USB-enabled keyboard

•  Web-based Graphical User Interface (GUI) called the Web Interface, which is accessible remotely via HTTPS

over Ethernet management ports.

•  SNMPv3  operations,  which  are  used  for  remote  configuration  and  obtaining  information  about  the

module’s state and statistics.

•

INI Configuration file, which is a text-based file with .ini file extension containing configuration settings.
This  file  may  be  loaded  to  the  SBC  using  SNMPv3  or  by  using  the  CLI  (over  SSH)  or  Web  Interface  for
automatic configuration/commissioning.

These  management  interfaces  provide  authorized  operators  access  to  the  module  for  configuration  and
management of all facets of the module’s operation, including system configuration, troubleshooting, security,
and  service  provisioning.  Using  any  of  the  management  interfaces,  an  operator  is  able  to  monitor,  configure,
control, receive report events, and retrieve logs from the SBC.

To support TLS and SSH, the following types of RSA certificates may be imported to the module using the module’s
Web Interface (over TLS) or CLI (over SSH):

•  X.509 certificate file – plaintext base64 encoded PEM28 format. These files contain public keys only, while

the matching private key is contained in the associated RSA private key file.

19 DoS – Denial of Service
20 DoS/DDoS – Denial-of-Service/Distributed Denial-of-Service
21 HTTPS – Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure
22 SSH – Secure Shell
23 SFTP – SSH (or Secure) File Transfer Protocol
24 SNMP – Simple Network Management Protocol
25 VLAN – Virtual Local Area Network
26 OAMP – Operations, Administration, Maintenance, and Provisioning
27 MOS – Mean Opinion Score
28 PEM – Privacy Enhanced Mail

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 6 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

•  RSA private key file – plaintext base64 encoded PEM format. These files contain the private key associated

with the RSA public key in the X.509 certificate file.

•  Root certificate file (CA Public keys) – chains of X.509 certificates in plaintext base64 encoded PEM format.
These are used to validate peer certificates and serve as a possible chain used for self-signed certificates
to  be  sent  to  the  peer.  The  Root  certificate  file  contains  public  keys  only;  they  do  not  contain  the
associated private keys.

The module generates RSA keypairs and Certificate Signing Requests (CSRs). The CSR is signed with the module’s
private key and then sent to a CA. The CA then signs the certificate and sends it back, where it is then installed for
use. The module also generates self-signed certificates corresponding to the internally generated RSA keypairs.

The module provides the option to import certain CSPs by loading a text-based file with a *.ini file extension (INI
file) in encrypted form using the module’s Web Interface (over TLS) or CLI (over SSH). The module also supports
an Automated Update mechanism whereby an INI file is downloaded from a server over HTTPS. The CSPs that may
be imported through an INI file are indicated as such in Table 10 below.

The Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC is validated at the FIPS 140-3 section levels shown in Table
1.

Table 1 – Security Levels

ISO/IEC 24579 Section 6.
[Number Below]

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security Level

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

General

Cryptographic Module Specification

Cryptographic Module Interfaces

Roles, Services, and Authentication

Software/Firmware Security

Operational Environment

Physical Security

Non-Invasive Security

Sensitive Security Parameter Management

Self-tests

Life-Cycle Assurance

Mitigation of Other Attacks

1

1

1

1

1

1

N/A

N/A

1

1

1

N/A

The module has an overall security level of 1.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 7 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

2.  Cryptographic Module Specification

The  Mediant  VE  and  CE  SBCs  version  7.6  is  a  software  cryptographic  module  with  a  multiple-chip  standalone
embodiment that meets overall Level  1  FIPS 140-3  requirements.  The module is designed to operate  within  a
modifiable operational environment and executes as a virtual appliance.

The sections below describe the operational environments, algorithm implementations, module boundary, and
modes of operation.

Operational Environments

2.1
The module was tested and found to be compliant with FIPS 140-3 requirements on the environments listed in
Table 2.

Table 2 – Tested Operational Environments

#

1

Operating System

Hardware Platform

Processor

PAA/Acceleration

VMware ESXi 7.0 w/custom
Linux based on CentOS Stream 8

HPE ProLiant DL360 Gen10

Intel Xeon Gold 6226R  Without

The  cryptographic  module  maintains  validation  compliance  when  operating  in  a  virtual  machine  (VM)  with
AudioCodes’ custom OS as the guest OS on any compatible GPC using one of the following hypervisors to provide
the virtualization layer:

Table 3 – Vendor Affirmed Operational Environments

#

1

2

Operating System

Hardware Platform

Linux KVM

Any Compatible GPC

Microsoft Hyper-V

Any Compatible GPC

Note  that  the  host  GPC  may  be  deployed  on-prem  or  in  one  of  the  following  supported  cloud  computing
environments:

•  OpenStack
•  Amazon Web Services
•  Google Cloud Platform
•  Microsoft Azure

The  CMVP  makes  no  statement  as  to  the  correct  operation  of  the  module  or  the  security  strengths  of  the
generated keys when ported to an operational environment not listed on the validation certificate.

Algorithm Implementations

2.2
The module employs the cryptographic algorithm implementations from the sources listed in Table 4 below.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 8 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Certificate
Number

A2389

A2390

A2544

Table 4 – Cryptographic Algorithm Sources

Implementation Name

Version

Use

AudioCodes Mediant Session Border Controller
KDF Library

7.6

Provides implementations for TLS, SNMP, SRTP,
and SSH29 key derivation functions

AudioCodes Mediant Session Border Controller
Entropy Library

7.6

Provides SHA3 for entropy generation

AudioCodes Mediant Session Border Controller
Cryptographic Library

7.6

Provides implementations for general-purpose
cryptographic primitives

Validation  certificates  for  each  Approved  security  function  are  listed  in  Table  5.  The  module  also  includes
implementations that are used solely to support self-tests; only the implementations in the table below are used
by the module during operation.

Table 5 – Approved Algorithms

CAVP Cert30

Algorithm and Standard

Mode / Method

Description / Key Size(s) /
Key Strength(s)

Use / Function

AudioCodes Mediant Session Border Controller KDF Library

A2389

KDF SNMP
CVL31
SP 800-135rev1

A2389

KDF SRTP
CVL
SP 800-135rev1

A2389

KDF SSH
CVL
SP 800-135rev1

KDF (SNMP)

Password Length: 64-800
Increment 8

Key Derivation

No part of the SNMP
protocol, other than the
KDFs, have been tested by
the CAVP and CMVP.

KDF (SRTP)

128, 256

Key Derivation

No part of the SRTP
protocol, other than the
KDFs, have been tested by
the CAVP and CMVP.

KDF (SSH)

AES-128 (SHA-1, SHA2-
256)

Key Derivation

No part of the SSH protocol,
other than the KDFs, have
been tested by the CAVP
and CMVP.

A2389

TLS v1.2 KDF RFC32 7627
CVL
SP 800-135rev1
RFC 7627

KDF (TLS33 v1.2)

SHA2-256, SHA2-384,
SHA2-512

Key Derivation

No part of the TLS protocol,
other than the KDF, has
been tested by the CAVP
and CMVP.

29 SSH – Secure Shell
30 This table includes vendor-affirmed algorithms that are approved but CAVP testing is not yet available.
31 CVL – Component Validation List
32 RFC – Request for Comments
33 TLS – Transport Layer Security

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 9 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

CAVP Cert30

Algorithm and Standard

Mode / Method

Description / Key Size(s) /
Key Strength(s)

Use / Function

A2389

TLS v1.3 KDF
CVL
SP 800-135rev1
RFC 8446

KDF (TLS v1.3)

SHA2-256, SHA2-384

Key Derivation

No part of the TLS protocol,
other than the KDF, has
been tested by the CAVP
and CMVP.

AudioCodes Mediant Session Border Controller Entropy Library

A2390

SHA3-256
FIPS PUB 202

SHA3-256

-

Conditioning function for
entropy

AudioCodes Mediant Session Border Controller Cryptographic Library

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

AES-CBC
FIPS PUB 197
NIST SP 800-38A

AES-CCM34
NIST SP 800-38C

AES-CFB128
FIPS PUB 197
NIST SP 800-38A

AES-CTR
FIPS PUB 197
NIST SP 800-38A

AES-GCM35
NIST SP 800- 38D

Counter DRBG36
NIST SP 800-90Arev1

DSA37 KeyGen (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

ECDSA38 KeyGen (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

ECDSA KeyVer (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

ECDSA SigVer (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

CBC

CCM

128, 256

Encryption/Decryption

128, 256

Encryption/Decryption

CFB128

128, 192, 256

Encryption/Decryption

CTR

GCM

128, 256

Encryption/Decryption

128, 256

Encryption/Decryption

Counter-based

256-bit AES-CTR

Deterministic random bit
generation

DSA KeyGen

2048/256

Key Pair Generation

P-224, P-256, P-384, P-521  Key Pair Generation

ECDSA KeyGen
Secrets generation
mode:
Testing candidates

ECDSA KeyVer

P-224, P-256, P-384, P-521  Public Key Verification

ECDSA SigVer

P-256 (SHA2-256)

HMAC-SHA-1
FIPS PUB 198-1

SHA-1

MAC: 32, 80, 160
Key Length: 160

Digital Signature
Verification

Message Authentication

The module also supports
HMAC SHA-1-32 and HMAC
SHA-1-80.

34 CCM – Counter with Cipher Block Chaining - Message Authentication Code
35 GCM – Galois Counter Mode
36 DRBG – Deterministic Random Bit Generator
37 DSA – Digital Signature Algorithm
38 ECDSA – Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 10 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

CAVP Cert30

Algorithm and Standard

Mode / Method

Description / Key Size(s) /
Key Strength(s)

Use / Function

A2544

HMAC-SHA2-256
FIPS PUB 198-1

SHA2-256

MAC: 256
Key Length: 256

Message Authentication

A2544

HMAC-SHA2-384
FIPS PUB 198-1

SHA2-384

MAC: 384
Key Length: 384

Message Authentication

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

A2544

KAS-ECC-SSC39 SP800-56Arev3
NIST SP 800-56Arev3

ephemeralUnified

P-224, P-256, P-384, P-521  Shared Secret Computation

KAS-FFC-SSC40 SP800-56Arev3
NIST SP 800-56Arev3

dhEphem

FC (2048/256), ffdhe2048,
ffdhe3072, MODP-2048

Shared Secret Computation

RSA41 KeyGen (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

Key generation mode:
B.3.3

2048, 3072, 4096

Key Pair Generation

RSA SigGen (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

PKCS#1 v1.5

RSA SigVer (FIPS186-4)
FIPS PUB 186-4

PKCS#1 v1.5

SHA-1
FIPS PUB 180-4

SHA2-224
FIPS PUB 180-4

SHA2-256
FIPS PUB 180-4

SHA2-384
FIPS PUB 180-4

SHA2-512
FIPS PUB 180-4

SHA-1

SHA2-224

SHA2-256

SHA2-384

SHA2-512

Safe Primes Key Generation
NIST SP 800-56Arev3,
Appendix D

Safe Primes Key Verification
NIST SP 800-56Arev3,
Appendix D

-

-

2048, 3072, 4096 (SHA2-
224, SHA2-256, SHA2-384,
SHA2-512)

Digital Signature
Generation

1024, 2048, 3072, 4096
(SHA2-224, SHA2-256,
SHA2-384, SHA2-512)

Digital Signature
Verification

Message Length:
0-65528 Increment 8

Message Length:
0-65528 Increment 8

Message Length:
0-65528 Increment 8

Message Length:
0-65528 Increment 8

Message Length:
0-65528 Increment 8

ffdhe2048, fdhe3072,
MODP-2048

Message Digest

Message Digest

Message Digest

Message Digest

Message digest

Key Generation

ffdhe2048, fdhe3072,
MODP-2048

Key Verification

Security Function Implementations (SFIs)

AES-CBC
A2544

KTS
NIST SP 800-38F

HMAC
A2544

SP 800-38A, FIPS 198-1,
and SP 800-38F. KTS
(key wrapping and
unwrapping) per IG
D.G.

128, 192, and 256-bit keys
providing between 128
and 256 bits of encryption
strength

Key Wrap/Unwrap
(Encryption with message
authentication)

AES-CBC with HMAC (SHA-
1, SHA2-256, SHA2-384)

39 KAS-ECC-SSC – Key Agreement Scheme - Elliptic Curve Cryptography - Shared Secret Computation
40 KAS-FFC-SSC – Key Agreement Scheme - Finite Field Cryptography - Shared Secret Computation
41 RSA – Rivest Shamir Adleman

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 11 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

CAVP Cert30

Algorithm and Standard

Mode / Method

Description / Key Size(s) /
Key Strength(s)

Use / Function

128 and 256-bit keys
providing 128 or 256 bits
of encryption strength

Key Wrap/Unwrap
(Authenticated Encryption)

128, 192, and 256-bit keys
providing between 128
and 256 bits of encryption
strength

Key Wrap/Unwrap
(Encryption with message
authentication)

SP 800-38C and SP 800-
38F. KTS (key wrapping
and unwrapping) per IG
D.G.

SP 800-38A, FIPS 198-1,
and SP 800-38F. KTS
(key wrapping and
unwrapping) per IG
D.G.

AES-CFB128 with HMAC
(SHA-1, SHA2-256, SHA2-
384)

Key Wrap/Unwrap
(Authenticated Encryption)

Key Agreement

SP 800-38D and SP 800-
38F. KTS (key wrapping
and unwrapping) per IG
D.G.

SP 800-56Arev3. KAS-
ECC per IG D.F Scenario
2 path (2).

128 and 256-bit keys
providing 128 or 256 bits
of encryption strength

P-224, P-256, P-384, and
P-521 curves providing
between 112 and 256 bits
of encryption strength.

SP 800-56Arev3. KAS-
ECC per IG D.F Scenario
2 path (2).

P-224, P-256, P-384, and
P-521 curves providing
between 112 and 256 bits
of encryption strength.

Key Agreement

SP 800-56Arev3. KAS-
ECC per IG D.F Scenario
2 path (2).

P-224, P-256, P-384, and
P-521 curves providing
between 112 and 256 bits
of encryption strength.

Key Agreement

SP 800-56Arev3. KAS-
FFC per IG D.F Scenario
2 path (2).

2048-bit key providing
112 bits of encryption
strength.

Key agreement

SP 800-56Arev3. KAS-
ECC per IG D.F Scenario
2 path (2).

2048-bit key providing
112 bits of encryption
strength.

Key Agreement

SP 800-56Arev3. KAS-
ECC per IG D.F Scenario
2 path (2).

2048-bit key providing
112 bits of encryption
strength.

Key Agreement

AES-CCM
A2544

KTS
NIST SP 800-38F

AES-CFB128
A2544

KTS
NIST SP 800-38F

HMAC
A2544

AES-GCM
A2544

KTS
NIST SP 800-38F

KAS42
NIST SP 800-56Arev3
NIST SP 800-135rev1

KAS
NIST SP 800-56Arev3
NIST SP 800-135rev1
RFC 7627

KAS
NIST SP 800-56Arev3
NIST SP 800-135rev1
RFC 8446

KAS
NIST SP 800-56Arev3
NIST SP 800-135rev1

KAS
NIST SP 800-56Arev3
NIST SP 800-135rev1
RFC 7627

KAS
NIST SP 800-56Arev3
NIST SP 800-135rev1
RFC 8446

KAS-ECC-SSC
A2544

KDF SSH
A2389

KAS-ECC-SSC
A2544

TLS v1.2 KDF RFC
7627
A2389

KAS-ECC-SSC
A2544

TLS v1.3 KDF
A2389

KAS-FFC-SSC
A2544

KDF SSH
A2389

KAS- FFC -SSC
A2544

TLS v1.2 KDF RFC
7627
A2389

KAS- FFC -SSC
A2544

TLS v1.3 KDF
A2389

Entropy Source

42 KAS – Key Agreement Scheme

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 12 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

CAVP Cert30

Algorithm and Standard

Mode / Method

Description / Key Size(s) /
Key Strength(s)

Use / Function

N/A

ENT (NP)
NIST SP 800-90B

Vendor Affirmed

Vendor
Affirmed

CKG43
NIST SP 800-133rev2

-

-

-

-

Entropy input for DRBG

Cryptographic Key
Generation

The vendor affirms the following cryptographic security methods:

•  Cryptographic key generation – As per sections 4 and 5.1 of NIST SP 800-133rev2, the module uses its
Approved DRBG to generate seeds for generation of asymmetric keys.  The resulting generated seed is an
unmodified output from the DRBG. The module’s DRBG is seeded via entropy generated from a CPU jitter-
based entropy source  internal  to the module (the module requests a minimum number of  256  bits of
entropy per call).

Table 6 – Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security Claimed

Algorithm

Caveat

Use / Function

RSA SigVer (FIPS 186-4)  Only allowed for non-security

relevant use of unclaimed
authentication mechanism with SSH
and SFTP per IG 2.4.A, Scenario 2

Non-legacy use of RSA Signature
Verification: 1024 ≤ len(n) < 2048
(provides < 112 bits of security
strength)

The module does not include any non-Approved algorithms allowed in the Approved mode of operations.

The module does not include any non-Approved algorithms not allowed in the Approved mode of operations.

Cryptographic Boundary

2.3
As  a  virtual  appliance,  the  cryptographic  module  has  no  physical  characteristics,  it  makes  use  of  the  physical
interfaces of the server upon which the virtual appliance is installed. Figure 1 below illustrates a block diagram of
a typical GPC and the module’s physical perimeter.

43 CKG – Cryptographic Key Generation

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 13 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Figure 1 – GPC Block Diagram

The  module  consists  of  binary  packaged  into  an  executable  that  can  be  run  in  a  virtual  environment.  The
hypervisor  controls  and  directs  all  interactions  between  the  module  and  the  physical  appliance,  and  it  is
responsible  for  mapping  the  module’s  virtual  interfaces  to  the  host  server’s  physical  interfaces.  The  physical
perimeter of the cryptographic module is defined by the hard enclosure around the server on which it runs.

The  cryptographic  boundary  of  the  module  (shown  by  the  red  dotted  line  in  Figure  2  below)  consists  of  the
AudioCodes  Mediant  SBC  application  and  AudioCodes’  custom  OS  running  in  a  virtual machine.  The module’s
physical perimeter is illustrated by the black dotted line.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 14 of 51

PowerInterfaceI/O HubNetworkInterfaceClock GeneratorCPURAMCacheHDDHardwareManagementExternalPower SupplySCSI/SATAControllerPCI/PCIeSlotsDVDUSBBIOSPCI/PCIeSlotsGraphics ControllerPlaintext DataEncrypted Data Control InputStatus OutputPhysical PerimeterBIOS – Basic Input/Output SystemCPU – Central Processing UnitSATA – Serial Advanced Technology AttachmentSCSI – Small Computer System InterfacePCI – Peripheral Component InterconnectLED – Light Emitting DiodePCIe – PCI expressHDD – Hard Disk DriveDVD – Digital Video DiscUSB – Universal Serial BusRAM – Random Access MemoryLCD – Liquid Crystal DisplayKEY:AudioLEDs/LCDSerial

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Figure 2 – AudioCodes Mediant VE and CE SBCs Cryptographic Boundary

There are no module components excluded from the requirements.

2.4  Modes of Operation
The module supports the Approved mode of operation only. When installed, configured, and operated according
to this Security Policy, the module does not support a non-Approved mode of operation.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 15 of 51

Server HardwareVmware ESXi 7.0Virtual MachineCustom Linux based on CentOS Stream 8Mediant VE/CE SBCsVirtual MachineGuest OSApplicationVirtual MachineGuest OSApplicationKEY:               Cryptographic                Boundary               Physical Perimeter               Data Input               Data Output               Control Input               Status Output               System CallsHost DeviceCPUMemoryStoragePorts

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

3.  Cryptographic Module Interfaces

FIPS 140-3 defines the following logical interfaces for cryptographic modules:

•  Data Input
•  Data Output
•  Control Input
•  Control Output
•  Status Output

Note that the module does not output control information, and thus has no specified control output interface.

As  a  software  cryptographic module,  the  module  has  no  physical  characteristics.  Its  interfaces  are  logical;  the
hypervisor provides virtualized ports and interfaces for the module that map to the host server’s physical ports
and  interfaces.  The  module  relies  on  the  physical  and  electrical  characteristics,  manual  controls,  and  physical
indicators of the host server.

The module was tested and validated on an HP ProLiant DL360 Gen10 server. The following is a list of the physical
interfaces implemented on the tested host server:

•  1 GbE and 10 GbE SFP+ Ethernet ports
•  USB-enabled keyboard port
•  Serial port
•  Video port
•  LEDs44
•  AC45 Power port

The virtual machine hosting the module virtualizes the physical interfaces. Table 7 below provides the mapping of
the FIPS-defined interfaces and the module’s physical and logical interfaces.

Physical Port

Logical Interface

Data That Passes Over Port/Interface

Table 7 – Ports and Interfaces

Host server Ethernet port(s)

Host server USB-enabled
keyboard port(s)

Virtual Ethernet port(s)
•  Data input
•  Data output
•  Control input
•  Status output

Virtual USB port(s)
•  Data Input
•  Control Input

Management traffic; media and signaling
traffic; operational/system status
information

Management traffic via CLI

44 LED – Light-Emitting Diode
45 AC – Alternating Current

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 16 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Physical Port

Logical Interface

Data That Passes Over Port/Interface

Host platform serial port

Host platform video connector

Host server LEDs

Virtual serial port
•  Data input
•  Data output
•  Control input
•  Status output

Virtual video connector
•  Data output
•  Status output

Virtual LEDs
•  Status output

Management traffic via CLI

CLI status information

Operational/system status information

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 17 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

4.  Roles, Services, and Authentication

The sections below describe the module’s authorized roles, services, and operator authentication methods.

Authorized Roles

4.1
The module supports two roles that operators may assume:

•  Crypto Officer (CO) role – The CO is responsible for initializing the module for first use, which includes the
configuration of passwords, public and private keys, and other CSPs. The CO is also responsible for the
management of all keys and CSPs, including their zeroization, and is the only operator that can configure
the module for Approved mode operation. The CO has access to all User services and can also perform
services via SNMPv3.

•  User role – The User has read-only privileges and can show the status and statistics of the module, show
the current status of the module, and connect to the module remotely using HTTPS or SSH. Users can also
change their own passwords.

The CO and User roles are tied to administrative roles supported by the module. The CO role is equivalent in terms
of privileges to the AudioCodes-defined “Security Administrator” and “Master” administrative role. The User role
is equivalent to the AudioCodes-defined “Monitor” role. Both roles can access the Web Interface and CLI.

Table 8 below lists the supported roles, along with the services (including input and output) available to each role.

Role

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

Table 8 – Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

Service

Input

Output

Show Module Versioning Information  None

Module name and version
information

Commission the Module

None

None

Load License Key File

Command

Status output

Configure the SBC System

Command and
parameter

Command response/
Status output

Configure VOIP Network, Media and
SIP Settings, and Routing Rules

Command and
parameters

Command response/
Status output

Manage Users

Manage User Sessions

Change Password

CO, User

Change Own Password

Command and
parameters

Command and
parameters

Command and
parameters

Command and
parameters

Command response/
Status output

Command response/
Status output

Command response/
Status output

Command response/
Status output

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 18 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Service

Input

Output

Manage Certificates/Keypairs

Configure TLS Contexts

Command and
parameters

Command and
parameters

Perform On-Demand Self-Tests

Command

CO, User

Show Status

Command

CO, User

Show System Security Status

Command

CO, User

View Syslog

Command

Zeroize Keys and CSPs

Command

Upgrade Image

Load a .ini File and Perform
Automatic Updates

Save a .ini File of the Module’s
Configuration

Reset

Command

Command

Command

Command

Command response/
Status output

Command response/
Status output

Command response/
Status output

Command response/
Status output

Command response/
Status output

Command response/
Status output

Command response/
Status output

Command response/
Status output

Command response/ Status
output

Command response/ Status
output

Command response/
Status output

Establish TLS Session

Command

TLS session established

Establish SSH Session

Command

SSH session established

Configure SNMPv3 Users

Establish SNMPv3 Session

Establish SRTP Session

Establish SFTP Session

Command and
parameters

Command and
parameters

Command and
parameters

Command and
parameters

Restore Default Configuration

Command

Command response/ Status
output

SNMP session established

SRTP session established

SFTP session established

Factory default settings
restored

Perform Manual Zeroization

Reboot/power cycle
host device

Status output

Perform Manual On-Demand Self-
Tests

Reboot or power
cycle host device

Status output

Authenticate

Command

Status output

Role

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO
User

CO
User

CO

CO

CO

CO

CO

N/A

N/A

N/A

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 19 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Authentication

4.2
Each  operator  has  their  own  account  with  a  username  and  password  which  are  used  to  authenticate  to  the
module.  Passwords  are  stored  on  non-volatile  storage  media  (outside  the  module  boundary  but  within  the
physical perimeter) in hashed form using SHA2-256. For SSH/SFTP, operators can also utilize RSA or ECDSA Public
keys.

 Note  that,  while  the module  supports  authentication  mechanisms,  no  claims are  being made  with  regards  to
compliance to the Level 2/3 role-based and identity-based authentication requirements since it is being certified
at Level 1.

Externally Loaded Software

4.3
The module has the capability to load software in the form of a complete image replacement from an external
source.  As  such  a  replacement  will  constitute  a  new  module,  only  FIPS-validated  software  may  be  loaded  to
maintain the module’s validation.

Services and functions provided by the newly loaded software image are not performed until the pre-operational
self-tests  have  executed  successfully  via  a  power-on  reset.  All  software  images  are  digitally  signed,  and  a
conditional self-test (using an ECDSA signature verification with P-256 curve) is performed during the reset. If the
signature test fails, the new software image is ignored and the previous-loaded software image remains current.

SSP zeroization takes place prior to execution of the new image. The module’s versioning information is updated
to reflect the addition/update of the newly loaded software.

Services

4.4
Descriptions of the services available to authenticated module operators are provided in Table 9 below.

As allowed per section 2.4.C of FIPS 140-3 Implementation Guidance, the module provides indicators for the use
of Approved services through a combination of an explicit indication (via a global mode indicator) and an implicit
indication (via the successful completion of the service).

Please note that the keys and Sensitive Security Parameters (SSPs) listed in the table indicate the type of access
required using the following notation:

•  G = Generate: The module generates or derives the SSP.
•  R = Read: The SSP is read from the module (e.g., the SSP is output).
•  W = Write: The SSP is updated, imported, or written to the module.
•  E = Execute: The module uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation.
•  Z = Zeroize: The module zeroizes the SSP.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 20 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Service

Description

Approved Security Function(s)

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

Access Rights to Keys and/or SSPs

Indicator

Table 9 – Approved Services

None

None

None

None

CO

N/A

CO

N/A

N/A

Show
Module
Versioning
Information

Commission
the Module

Load License
Key File

Configure the
SBC System

Configure
VOIP
Network,
Media and
SIP Settings,
and Routing
Rules

Manage
Users

Manage User
Sessions

Show the
model and
software
version.

Commission
the module
by following
the Security
Policy
guidelines

Load a
License Key
file to change
or upgrade
features

Configure IP
address, Web
Interface and
CLI, LAN and
WAN
settings, and
date and
time; save
and load
configuration
files; save
and load CLI
script files

Configure IP
network
topology,
media and
SIP settings,
and routing
rules

Create, edit,
or delete
user
accounts;
assign
passwords
and roles;
import SSH
public key

Terminate
specific
user’s CLI
session

Change
Password

Modify CO or
User account
passwords

Change Own
Password

Modify
existing login
passwords

None

None

CO

N/A

None

None

None

None

N/A

CO,
User
(view
only)

N/A

CO,
User
(view
only)

SSH Public Key

CO

SSH Public Key – W

SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

 SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

None

None

CO

N/A

None

CO

N/A

 None

CO,
User

N/A

SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

 SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

 SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-384

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 21 of 51

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Service

Description

Approved Security Function(s)

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

Access Rights to Keys and/or SSPs

Indicator

Entropy Input String
DRBG Seed
DRBG ‘Key’ Value
DRBG ‘V’ Value
RSA Private Key
RSA Public Key
ECDSA Private Key
ECDSA Public Key
CA46 Public Key

CO

Entropy Input String – G/E
DRBG Seed – G/E
DRBG ‘Key’ Value – G/E
DRBG ‘V’ Value – G/E
RSA Private Key – G
RSA Public Key – G
ECDSA Private Key – G
ECDSA Public Key – G
CA Public Key – W

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Manage
Certificates/
Keypairs

(Cert. A2544)

CKG
(Vendor Affirmed)

Counter DRBG
(Cert. A2544)

ECDSA KeyGen (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

ENT (NP)

RSA KeyGen (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

Generate
RSA/ECDSA
keypairs for
certificate
signing
requests,
generate RSA
private keys,
load
certificates
and private
keys via
TLS/SSH

SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

SHA3-256
(Cert. A2390)

None

Configure TLS
Contexts

Define TLS
version and
cipher suites
for
management
and data TLS
connections

None

CO

N/A

Perform On-
Demand Self-
Tests

Perform on-
demand self-
tests

None

Software Integrity Test Key

CO

Software Integrity Test Key – E

Show Status

Show System
Security
Status

View Syslog

Show the
system
status,
Ethernet
status,
alarms, user
activity logs,
system
identification
and
configuration
settings of
the module

Show the
system
security
status: “FIPS
Approved
mode”

View event
status
messages in
the syslog

None

None

CO,
User

N/A

None

None

None

None

CO,
User

N/A

CO,
User

N/A

46 CA – Certificate Authority

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 22 of 51

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

N/A

N/A

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Service

Description

Approved Security Function(s)

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

Access Rights to Keys and/or SSPs

Indicator

Zeroize Keys
and CSPs

Zeroize keys
and CSPs

None

All persistent CSPs

CO

All persistent CSPs – Z

N/A

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Upgrade
Image

Load new
software
image

ECDSA SigVer (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

Image Verification Key

CO

Image Verification Key – E

CO

ECDSA Private Key
ECDSA Public Key
RSA Private Key
RSA Public Key
CA Public Key
SSH Private Key
SSH Public Key
SNMPv3 Authentication Password
SNMPv3 Privacy Password

ECDSA Private Key – W
ECDSA Public Key – W
RSA Private Key – W
RSA Public Key – W
CA Public Key – W
SSH Private Key – W
SSH Public Key – W
SNMPv3 Authentication Password – W
SNMPv3 Privacy Password – W

None

CO

N/A

SSPs stored in RAM

CO

SSPs stored in RAM – Z

Entropy Input String
DRBG Seed
DRBG ‘Key’ Value
DRBG ‘V’ Value
DH Public Key
DH Private Key
DH Peer Public Key
ECDH Public Key
ECDH Private Key
ECDH Peer Public Key
TLS Private Key
TLS Public Key
TLS Pre-Master Secret
TLS Master Secret
TLS Session Key
TLS Authentication Key

CO,
User

Entropy Input String – G/E
DRBG Seed – G/E
DRBG ‘Key’ Value – G/E
DRBG ‘V’ Value – G/E
DH Public Key – G/R
DH Private Key – G/E
DH Peer Public Key – G/W/E
ECDH Public Key – G/R
ECDH Private Key – G/E
ECDH Peer Public Key – G/W/E
TLS Private Key – G/W/E
TLS Public Key – G/W/R
TLS Pre-Master Secret – G/R/E
TLS Master Secret – G/E
TLS Session Key – G/E
TLS Authentication Key – G/E

 SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

None

Load a .ini
File and
Perform
Automatic
Updates

Load the
module’s
configuration
as a .ini file
and perform
automatic
updates

Save a .ini
File of the
Module’s
Configuration

Save a .ini file
of the
module’s
configuration

None

Reset

Reset the
module

None

Establish TLS
Session

Establish web
session using
TLS protocol

AES-CBC
(Cert. A2544)

AES-GCM
(Cert. A2544)

CKG
(Vendor Affirmed)

Counter DRBG
(Cert. A2544)

DSA KeyGen (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

ECDSA KeyGen (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

ENT (NP)

HMAC-SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

KAS
(Cert. A2544)

KAS-ECC-SSC SP800-56Arev3
(Cert. A2544)

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 23 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Service

Description

Approved Security Function(s)

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

Access Rights to Keys and/or SSPs

Indicator

KAS-FFC-SSC SP800-56Arev3
(Cert. A2544)

KTS (AES-CCM)
(Cert. A2544)

KTS (AES-GCM)
(Cert. A2544)

KTS (AES-CBC/HMAC)
(Cert. A2544)

RSA SigGen (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

RSA SigVer (FIPS186-4
(Cert. A2544)

Safe Primes Key Generation
(Cert. A2544)

Safe Primes Key Verification
(Cert. A2544)

SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

SHA3 -256
(Cert. A2390)

TLS v1.2 KDF RFC 7627
(Cert. A2389)

TLS v1.3 KDF
(Cert. A2389)

AES-CBC
(Cert. A2544)

CKG
(Vendor Affirmed)

DRBG
(Cert. A2544)

DSA KeyGen (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

ECDSA KeyGen (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

ENT (NP)

HMAC-SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

KAS
(Cert. A2544)

Establish SSH
Session

Establish
remote
session using
SSH protocol

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Entropy Input String
DRBG Seed
DRBG ‘Key’ Value
DRBG ‘V’ Value
DH Public Key
DH Private Key
DH Peer Public Key
ECDH Public Key
ECDH Private Key
ECDH Peer Public Key
SSH Private Key
SSH Public Key
SSH Shared Secret
SSH Session Key
SSH Authentication Key

CO,
User

Entropy Input String – G
DRBG Seed – G/E
DRBG ‘Key’ Value – G/E
DRBG ‘V’ Value – G/E
DH Public Key – G/R/E
DH Private Key – G/E
DH Peer Public Key – G/W/E
ECDH Public Key – G/R/E
ECDH Private Key – G/E
ECDH Peer Public Key – G/W/E
SSH Private Key – G/W/E
SSH Public Key – G/W/R
SSH Shared Secret – G/E
SSH Session Key – G/E
SSH Authentication Key – G/E

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 24 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Service

Description

Approved Security Function(s)

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

Access Rights to Keys and/or SSPs

Indicator

KAS-ECC-SSC SP800-56Arev3
(Cert. A2544)

KAS-FFC-SSC SP800-56Arev3
(Cert. A2544)

KDF SSH
(Cert. A2389)

KTS (AES-GCM)
(Cert. A2544)

KTS (AES-CBC/HMAC)
(Cert. A2544)

RSA SigGen (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

RSA SigVer (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

Safe Primes Key Generation
(Cert. A2544)

Safe Primes Key Verification
(Cert. A2544)

SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

SHA3-256
(Cert. A2390)

AES-CFB128
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

AES-CFB128
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

Configure
SNMPv3
Users

Configure
SNMPv3
users

Establish
SNMPv3
Session

Establish
non-security-
related
monitoring
session using
SNMPv3
protocol

SNMPv3 Authentication Password
SNMPv3 Privacy Password
SNMPv3 Privacy Key
SNMPv3 Authentication Key

CO

SNMPv3 Authentication Password – W/E
SNMPv3 Privacy Password – W/E
SNMPv3 Session Key – W/E
SNMPv3 Authentication Key – W/E

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

SNMPv3 Authentication Password
SNMPv3 Privacy Password
SNMPv3 Authentication Key
SNMPv3 Privacy Key

CO

SNMPv3 Authentication Password – E
SNMPv3 Privacy Password – E
SNMPv3 Session Key – G/E
SNMPv3 Privacy Key – G/E

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 25 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Service

Description

Approved Security Function(s)

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

Access Rights to Keys and/or SSPs

Indicator

Establish
SRTP Session

Establish
session using
SRTP
protocol

Establish
SFTP Session

Establish
session using
SFTP protocol

KDF SNMP
(Cert. A2389)

KTS (AES-CFB128/HMAC)
(Certs. A2544)

SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

AES-CTR
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

KDF SRTP
(Cert. A2389)

SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

AES-CBC
 (Cert. A2544)

CKG
(Vendor Affirmed)

Counter DRBG
(Cert. A2544)

DSA KeyGen (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

ECDSA KeyGen (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

ENT (NP)

HMAC-SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

KAS
(Cert. A2544)

KAS-ECC-SSC SP800-56Arev3
(Cert. A2544)

SRTP Master Key
SRTP Session Key
SRTP Authentication Key

CO

SRTP Master Key – G/W
SRTP Session Key – G/E
SRTP Authentication Key – G/E

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

Entropy Input String
DRBG Seed
DRBG ‘Key’ Value
DRBG ‘V’ Value
DH Public Key
DH Private Key
DH Peer Public Key
ECDH Public Key
ECDH Private Key
ECDH Peer Public Key
SFTP Private Key
SFTP Public Key
SSH Shared Secret
SSH Session Key
SSH Authentication Key

CO

Entropy Input String – G
DRBG Seed – G/E
DRBG ‘Key’ Value – G/E
DRBG ‘V’ Value – G/E
DH Public Key – G/R/E
DH Private Key – G/E
DH Peer Public Key – G/W/E
ECDH Public Key – G/R/E
ECDH Private Key – G/E
ECDH Peer Public Key – G/W/E
SFTP Private Key – G/E
SFTP Public Key – G/R
SSH Shared Secret – G/E
SSH Session Key – G/E
SSH Authentication Key – G/E

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 26 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Service

Description

Approved Security Function(s)

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

Access Rights to Keys and/or SSPs

Indicator

KAS-FFC-SSC SP800-56Arev3
(Cert. A2544)

KDF SSH
(Cert. A2389)

KTS (AES-GCM)
(Cert. A2544)

KTS (AES-CBC/HMAC)
(Cert. A2544)

RSA SigGen (FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

RSA SigVer(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

Safe Primes Key Generation
(Cert. A2544)

Safe Primes Key Verification
(Cert. A2544)

SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

SHA3-256
(Cert. A2390)

None

Restore
Default
Configuration

Restore
settings to
factory
defaults

Perform
Manual
Zeroization

Zeroize keys
and CSPs

None

Perform
Manual On-
Demand Self-
Tests

Perform
power-up
self-tests on
demand

Authenticate  Use to log

into the
module

None

 SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

All persistent SSPs

CO

All persistent CSPs – Z

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

All ephemeral keys and CSPs

Software Integrity Test Key
All ephemeral keys and CSPs

None

-

-

-

All ephemeral keys and CSPs – Z

N/A

Software Integrity Test Key – E
All ephemeral keys and CSPs – Z

N/A

N/A

Global
Indicator
(“FIPS mode:
Enabled”)

*Per FIPS 140-3 Implementation Guidance 2.4.C, the Show Status, Zeroize, and Show Versioning Information services do not require an Approved security
service indicator.

The module does not provide any non-Approved services.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 27 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

5.

Software/Firmware Security

The module software takes the form of a single software image that includes multiple files (configuration files,
executable files, packages, and other associated files). The image is verified using an approved integrity technique
implemented within the cryptographic module itself. The module implements an ECDSA P-256 (SHA2-256) digital
signature verification for the integrity test of the software. The approved integrity technique consists of single
ECDSA signature verification; failure of the integrity check will cause the module to enter a critical error state.

The CO can initiate the pre-operational tests on demand by issuing a reset/reboot command over its management
interfaces. Also, the module can be made to perform pre-operational self-tests by rebooting or power-cycling the
module’s VM or host device (when using this method, the operator is not required to assume an authorized role).

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 28 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

6.  Operational Environment

The module  is designed to operate  within  a modifiable operational environment.  The module was  tested and
found to be compliant with FIPS 140-3 requirements on the operational environment identified in Table 2.

The cryptographic module has control over its own SSPs. The process and memory management functionality of
the guest OS and the hypervisor prevents unauthorized access to plaintext private and secret keys, intermediate
key generation values and other SSPs by external processes during module execution. The module only allows
access  to  SSPs  through  its  well-defined  interfaces.  The  operational  environment  provides  the  capability  to
separate  individual  application  processes  from  each  other  by  preventing  uncontrolled  access  to  CSPs  and
uncontrolled modifications of SSPs regardless of whether this data is in the process memory or stored on virtual
storage within the operational environment. Processes that are spawned by the module are owned by the module
and are not owned by external processes or operators.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 29 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

7.  Physical Security

The cryptographic module is software module and does not include physical security mechanisms.  Therefore, per
ISO/IEC 19790:2021 section 7.7.1, the requirements for physical security are not applicable.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 30 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

8.  Non-Invasive Security

This section is not applicable. There are currently no approved non-invasive mitigation techniques referenced in
ISO/IEC 19790:2021 Annex F.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 31 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

9.

Sensitive Security Parameter
Management

Keys and SSPs

9.1
The module supports the keys and other SSPs listed in Table 10 below.

Strength

Security Function
and Cert. Number

Generation

Import/Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroization47

Table 10 – SSPs

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Keys

Software
Integrity Test
Key
(not an SSP)

128 bits

ECDSA SigVer
(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

Hardcoded in
the module
image

-

CA Public Key
(CSP)

(ECDSA) Between
128 and 256 bits

(RSA) Between
112 and 150 bits

-

ECDSA SigVer
(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

RSA SigVer
(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

Imported in PEM file
format via Web Interface
(over TLS) in encrypted
form

Imported in PEM file
format via CLI (over SSH)
in encrypted form

Exported in PEM file
format over TLS or SSH in
encrypted form

RSA Private Key
(CSP)

Between 112 and
150 bits

RSA SigGen
(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

Generated
internally via
approved DRBG

RSA Public Key
(PSP)

Between 112 and
150 bits

RSA SigVer
(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

Generated
internally via
approved DRBG

Imported in PEM file
format via Web Interface
(over TLS) in encrypted
form

-

Imported in PEM file
format via CLI (over SSH)
in encrypted form

Exported in PEM file
format over TLS or SSH in
encrypted form

Imported in PEM file
format via Web Interface
(over TLS) in encrypted
form

-

Imported in PEM file
format via CLI (over SSH)
in encrypted form

Exported in PEM file
format over TLS or SSH in
encrypted form

Use & Related
Keys

Pre-operational
verification of
module’s
software image

Verification of
CA signatures

-

-

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Not subject to
zeroization
requirements

Soft
reset/power
cycle (virtual
RAM only)

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Plaintext
form on
virtual
flash/disk

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Plaintext
form on
virtual
flash/disk

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Plaintext
form on
virtual
flash/disk

Soft
reset/power
cycle (virtual
RAM only)

Used for
certificate
signing requests

Soft
reset/power
cycle (virtual
RAM only)

Used for
certificate
signing requests

47 The indicators provided by zeroization methods specified in this column are implicit as the normal, non-error, status output of the function performing
zeroization.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 32 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security Function
and Cert. Number

Generation

Import/Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroization47

ECDSA Private
Key (CSP)

Between 128 and
256 bits

ECDSA SigGen
(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

Generated
internally via
approved DRBG

ECDSA Public
Key (PSP)

Between 128 and
256 bits

ECDSA SigVer
(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

Generated
internally via
approved DRBG

Imported in PEM file
format via Web Interface
(over TLS) in encrypted
form

-

Imported in PEM file
format via CLI (over SSH)
in encrypted form

Exported in PEM file
format over TLS or SSH in
encrypted form

Imported in PEM file
format via Web Interface
(over TLS) in encrypted
form

-

Imported in PEM file
format via CLI (over SSH)
in encrypted form

Exported in PEM file
format over TLS or SSH in
encrypted form

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Plaintext
form on
virtual
flash/disk

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Plaintext
form on
virtual
flash/disk

Use & Related
Keys

Used for
certificate
signing requests

Soft
reset/power
cycle (virtual
RAM only)

Soft
reset/power
cycle (virtual
RAM only)

Used for
certificate
signing requests

ECDH Private
Key
(CSP)

Between 128 and
256 bits

KAS-ECC-SSC
SP800-56Arev3
(Cert. A2544)

Generated
internally via
approved DRBG

-

ECDH Public Key
(PSP)

Between 128 and
256 bits

KAS-ECC-SSC
SP800-56Arev3
(Cert. A2544)

Generated
internally via
approved DRBG

Never imported

Exported in plaintext form

-

-

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

ECDH Peer
Public Key
(PSP)

Between 128 and
256 bits

KAS-ECC-SSC
SP800-56Arev3
(Cert. A2544)

-

Imported in plaintext

-

Never exported

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

DH Private Key
(CSP)

112 bits

KAS-FFC-SSC
SP800-56Arev3
(Cert. A2544)

Generated
internally via
approved DRBG

-

-

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Safe Primes Key
Generation
(Cert. A2544)

Safe Primes Key
Verification
(Cert. A2544)

DH Public Key
(PSP)

112 bits

KAS-FFC-SSC
SP800-56Arev3
(Cert. A2544)

Generated
internally via
approved DRBG

Never imported

-

Exported in plaintext form

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Safe Primes Key
Generation
(Cert. A2544)

Safe Primes Key
Verification
(Cert. A2544)

Computation of
KAS-ECC-SSC
shared secrets
during TLS/SSH
key exchange

Computation of
KAS-ECC-SSC
shared secrets
during TLS/SSH
key exchange

Computation of
KAS-ECC-SSC
shared secrets
during TLS/SSH
key exchange

Computation of
KAS-FFC-SSC
shared secrets
during TLS/SSH
key exchange

Computation of
KAS-FFC-SSC
shared secrets
during TLS/SSH
key exchange

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 33 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Key/SSP
Name/Type

DH Peer Public
Key
(PSP)

Strength

112 bits

Security Function
and Cert. Number

Generation

Import/Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroization47

Imported in plaintext
form

-

Never exported

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

KAS-FFC-SSC
SP800-56Arev3
(Cert. A2544)

-

Safe Primes Key
Generation
(Cert. A2544)

Safe Primes Key
Verification
(Cert. A2544)

Use & Related
Keys

Computation of
KAS-FFC-SSC
shared secrets
during TLS/SSH
key exchange

SSH Private Key
(CSP)

112 or 128 bits

RSA SigGen
(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

Generated
internally via
Approved DRBG

Generated
internally via
Approved DRBG
as part of CSR or
self-signed
certificate
generation

Derived
internally via
SSH KDF

SSH Public Key
(PSP)

112 or 128 bits

RSA SigGen
(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

SSH Session Key
(CSP)

128 and 256 bits

AES-CBC
(Cert. A2544)

AES-GCM
(Cert. A2544)

KTS (AES-GCM)
(Cert. A2544)

KTS (AES-
CBC/HMAC)
(Cert. A2544)

SSH
Authentication
Key
(CSP)

Between 160 and
384 bits

HMAC-SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

Derived
internally via
SSH KDF

HMAC-SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

Imported in PEM file
format via Web Interface
(over TLS) in encrypted
form

Imported in PEM file
format via CLI (over SSH)
in encrypted form

Never exported

Imported in PEM file
format via Web Interface
(over TLS) in encrypted
form

Imported in PEM file
format via CLI (over SSH)
in encrypted form

Imported by CO via CLI
(over serial port) in
plaintext

Never exported

-

-

-

-

-

-

Authentication
during SSH
session
negotiation

Soft
reset/power
cycle (virtual
RAM only);
zeroization
command

Soft
reset/power
cycle (virtual
RAM only)

Authentication
during SSH
session
negotiation

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Plaintext
form on
virtual
flash/disk

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Plaintext
form on
virtual
flash/disk

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Encryption and
decryption of
SSH session
packets

Wrapping of
keying material
(when keys are
part of the
payload)

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Authentication
of SSH session
packets

Wrapping of
keying material
(when keys are
part of the
payload)

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 34 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security Function
and Cert. Number

Generation

Import/Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroization47

TLS Private Key
(CSP)

Between 112 and
150 bits

RSA SigGen
(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

Generated
internally via
Approved DRBG

Imported in PEM file
format via Web Interface
(over TLS) in encrypted
form

-

Use & Related
Keys

Authentication
during TLS
session
negotiation

Soft
reset/power
cycle (virtual
RAM only);
zeroization
command

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Plaintext
form on
virtual
flash/disk

Imported in PEM file
format via CLI (over SSH)
in encrypted form

Imported by CO via CLI
(over serial port) in
plaintext form

Never exported

Imported in PEM file
format via Web Interface
(over TLS) in encrypted
form

Imported in PEM file
format via CLI (over SSH)
in encrypted form

Never exported

Generated
internally via
Approved DRBG
as part of CSR or
self-signed
certificate
generation

-

Derived
internally using
the TLS Master
Secret via TLS
KDF

TLS Public Key
(PSP)

Between 112 and
150 bits

RSA SigVer
(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

TLS Session Key
(CSP)

128 or 256 bits

AES-CBC
(Cert. A2544)

AES-CCM
(Cert. A2544)

AES-GCM
(Cert. A2544)

KTS (AES-CCM)
(Cert. A2544)

KTS (AES-GCM)
(Cert. A2544)

KTS (AES-
CBC/HMAC)
(Cert. A2544)

-

Derived
internally using
the TLS Master
Secret via TLS
KDF

TLS
Authentication
Key
(CSP)

Between 160 and
384 bits

HMAC-SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

KTS (AES-
CBC/HMAC)
(Cert. A2544)

-

-

-

Soft
reset/power
cycle (virtual
RAM only)

Authentication
during TLS
session
negotiation

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Plaintext
form on
virtual
flash/disk

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Encryption and
decryption of
TLS session
packets

Wrapping of
keying material
(when keys are
part of the
payload)

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Authentication
of TLS session
packets

Wrapping of
keying material
(when keys are
part of the
payload)

SNMPv3 Privacy
Key
(CSP)

Between 128 and
256 bits

AES-CFB128
(Cert. A2544)

Derived
internally using
SNMP KDF

Imported in PEM file
format via Web Interface
(over TLS) in encrypted
form

-

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Encryption and
decryption of
SNMPv3 session
packets

Imported in PEM file
format via CLI (over SSH)
in encrypted form

Never exported

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 35 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Generation

Import/Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroization47

Use & Related
Keys

Key/SSP
Name/Type

SNMPv3
Authentication
Key
(CSP)

SRTP Session
Key
(CSP)

SRTP
Authentication
Key
(CSP)

Strength

Security Function
and Cert. Number

Between 160 and
384 bits

HMAC-SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

Derived
internally using
SNMP KDF

Imported in PEM file
format via Web Interface
(over TLS) in encrypted
form

Imported in PEM file
format via CLI (over SSH)
in encrypted form

Exported via TLS or SSH)
in encrypted form

128 or 256 bits

AES-CTR
(Cert. A2544)

Between 160 and
384 bits

HMAC-SHA-1
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-256
(Cert. A2544)

HMAC-SHA2-384
(Cert. A2544)

-

-

Derived
internally using
SRTP Master Key
via the SRTP KDF

Derived
internally via
SRTP KDF using
SRTP Master Key

-

-

-

SFTP Private Key
(CSP)

Between 112 and
150 bits

RSA SigGen
(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

Generated
internally via
Approved DRBG

Never imported

-

Never exported

SFTP Public Key
(PSP)

Between 112 and
150 bits

RSA SigVer
(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

Never imported

-

Exported in plaintext form

Generated
internally via
Approved DRBG
as part of CSR or
self-signed
certificate
generation

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Authentication
of SNMPv3
session packets

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Encryption and
decryption of
SRTP session
packets

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Authentication
of SRTP session
packets

Authentication
during SFTP
session
negotiation

Soft
reset/power
cycle (virtual
RAM only);
zeroization
command

Soft
reset/power
cycle (virtual
RAM only)

Authentication
during SFTP
session
negotiation

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Plaintext
form on
virtual
flash/disk

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Plaintext
form on
virtual
flash/disk

Image
Verification Key
(PSP)

128 bits

ECDSA SigVer
(FIPS186-4)
(Cert. A2544)

Hardcoded in
the application
binary

Never imported

-

Never exported

N/A

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Verification of
new software
upgrade image

Other SSPs

SSH Shared
Secret
(CSP)

Between 112 and
256 bits

KDF SSH
(Cert. A2389)

TLS Pre-Master
Secret
(CSP)

Between 112 and
256 bits

TLS v1.2 KDF RFC
7627
(Cert. A2389)

TLS v1.3 KDF
(Cert. A2389)

-

-

Computed
internally by
KAS-ECC-SSC /
KAS-FFC-SSC

[for KAS-ECC-
SSC / KAS-FFC-
SSC cipher
suites]
Computed
internally by
KAS-ECC-SSC
and KAS-FFC-SSC

Plaintext
form on
virtual
flash/disk

-

-

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Input to SSH KDF
for derivation of
the SSH Session
Key and SSH
Authentication
Key

Input to KAS-
FFC-SSC and
KAS-ECC-SSC for
computation of
the TLS Master
Secret

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 36 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Generation

Import/Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroization47

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Key/SSP
Name/Type

TLS Master
Secret
(CSP)

Strength

384 bits

SRTP Master Key
(CSP)

128 and 256 bits

Security Function
and Cert. Number

TLS v1.2 KDF RFC
7627
(Cert. A2389)

TLS v1.3 KDF
(Cert. A2389)

KDF SRTP
(Cert. A2389)

-

Derived
internally using
the TLS Pre-
Master Secret
via TLS KDF

[when module is
calling side]
Generated
internally via
Approved DRBG

[when module is calling
side] Never imported;
Exported via SIP/TLS in
encrypted form

[when module is
answering side] Imported
via SIP/TLS in encrypted
form; Never exported

Entropy Input
String
(CSP)

384 bits

CKG
(Vendor Affirmed)

Generated
internally

SHA3-256
(Cert. A2390)

DRBG Seed
(CSP)

384 bits

CKG
(Vendor Affirmed)

Counter DRBG
(Cert. A2544)

Generated
internally using
entropy input
string

DRBG ‘Key’
Value
(CSP)

256 bits

CKG
(Vendor Affirmed)

Generated
internally

Counter DRBG
(Cert. A2544)

DRBG ‘V’ Value
(CSP)

128 bits

CKG
(Vendor Affirmed)

Generated
internally

-

-

-

-

Counter DRBG
(Cert. A2544)

KDF SNMP
(Cert. A2389)

-

-

SNMPv3
Authentication
Password
(CSP)

Imported via Web
Interface (over TLS) in
encrypted form

Imported via CLI (over
SSH) in encrypted form

Imported via CLI (over
serial port) in plaintext
form

Imported in an INI file via
Web Interface (over TLS)
in encrypted form

Imported in an INI file via
CLI (over SSH) in
encrypted form

Exported in an INI file via
TLS or SSH in encrypted
form

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Use & Related
Keys

Input to TLS KDF
for derivation of
the TLS Session
Key and TLS
Authentication
Key

Input to SRTP
KDF for
derivation of the
SRTP Session
Key and SRTP
Authentication
Key

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

End of DRBG
function, soft
reset/power
cycle

Random number
generation

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Random number
generation

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Random number
generation

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle

Random number
generation

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle (virtual
RAM only)

Used to derive
the SNMPv3
Authentication
Key

The CO
entering an all-
zero value
using the Web
Interface or CLI

Importing a
new .ini file
with a zero-
value SNMPv3
Authentication
Password

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 37 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Key/SSP
Name/Type

Strength

Security Function
and Cert. Number

Generation

Import/Export

Establishment

Storage

Zeroization47

SNMPv3 Privacy
Password
(CSP)

-

KDF SNMP
(Cert. A2389)

-

Imported via Web
Interface (over TLS) in
encrypted form

-

Plaintext
form in
virtual RAM

Soft
reset/power
cycle (virtual
RAM only)

Use & Related
Keys

Used to derive
the SNMPv3
Privacy Key

Imported via CLI (over
SSH) in encrypted form

Imported via CLI (over
serial port) in plaintext
form

Imported in an INI file via
Web Interface (over TLS)
in encrypted form

Imported in an INI file via
CLI (over SSH) in
encrypted form

Exported in an INI file via
TLS or SSH in encrypted
form

The CO
entering an all-
zero value
using the Web
Interface or CLI

Importing a
new .ini file
with a zero-
value SNMPv3
Privacy
Password

AES GCM encryption is used in the context of several secure communications protocols. The module meets the
(key/IV) pair uniqueness requirements from NIST SP 800-38D as follows:

•  For TLS v1.2, the module supports acceptable AES GCM cipher suites from section 3.3.1.1 of NIST SP 800-

52rev2.

The mechanism for IV generation falls into scenario 1 in FIPS 140-3 IG C.H and is compliant with RFC 5288.
The counter portion of the IV is strictly increasing. When the IV exhausts the maximum number of possible
values  for  a  given  session  key,  a  failure  in  encryption  will  occur  and  a  handshake  to  establish  a  new
encryption key will be required. It is the responsibility of the module operator (i.e., the first party, client,
or server) to trigger this handshake in accordance with RFC 5246 when this condition is encountered.

•  For TLS v1.3, the module supports acceptable AES GCM cipher suites from section 3.3.1.2 of NIST SP 800-
52rev2.  The    protocol’s  implementation  is  contained  within  the  boundary  of  the  module,  and  the
generated IV is only used in the context of the AES GCM encryption executing the provisions of the TLS
1.3 protocol.

The mechanism for IV generation falls into scenario 5 in FIPS 140-3 IG C.H and is compliant with RFC 8446.
Each session employs a “per-record nonce”, a 64-bit sequence number (or IV) maintained separately for
reading  and  writing  records.  Each  sequence  number  is  set  to  0  at  the  beginning  of  a  connection  and
whenever the key is changed (the first record transmitted under a particular traffic key uses sequence
number 0), and the appropriate sequence number is incremented by one after reading or writing each
record. Because the size of sequence numbers is 64 bits, they should not wrap. If a sequence number
needs to wrap, it is the responsibility of the module operator to either rekey or terminate the connection.

•  For SSH v2, the mechanism for IV generation falls into scenario 1 in FIPS 140-3 IG C.H and is compliant

with RFC 5647.

A new IV parameter is generated by the module for each AES GCM encryption. The IV consists of a 4-byte
fixed field and an 8-byte invocation counter. The fixed field of the IV remains the same for the duration of

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 38 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

the session, while the invocation counter is treated as a 64-bit integer and is incremented by one when
performing an encryption of a new binary packet. If the invocation counter reaches its maximum value
264 – 1, the next encryption is performed with the invocation counter set to either 0 or 1. No more than
264 – 1 encryptions are performed in the same session. When a session is terminated for any reason, it is
the responsibility of the module operator to derive a new key and a new initial IV.

The module also complies with the following RFCs:

o  RFC 4252
o  RFC 4253
o  RFC5647

RGB Entropy Sources

9.2
Table 11 below specifies the module’s entropy sources.

Table 11 – Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification

Entropy Source(s)

Minimum Number
of Bits of Entropy

Details

CPU Time Jitter Based
Non-Physical TRNG

384 bits

The min-entropy (per 4 bits of data) of the test was 3.597905 bits.

As long as there is at least one bit of entropy per four bits of raw
noise data, the entropy provided by each call to CPU Jitter entropy
can be considered to contain full entropy. When the DRBG requests
384 bits of entropy for seeding, the function is called four times and
returns 384 bits of entropy, thus exceeding the FIPS requirement of at
least 112 bits of entropy.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 39 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

10.  Self-Tests

Both pre-operational and conditional self-tests are performed by the module. Pre-operational tests are performed
between the time a cryptographic module is powered on and before the module transitions to the operational
state. Conditional self-tests are performed by the module during module operation when certain conditions exist.
The  following  sections  list  the  self-tests  performed  by  the  module,  their  expected  error  status,  and  the  error
resolutions.

10.1  Pre-Operational Self-Tests
Pre-operational  self-tests  are  executed  automatically  at  module  power-up  without  action  from  the  module
operator.

The module performs the following pre-operational self-test(s):

•  Software Integrity Test on the module software image (using ECDSA P-256 with SHA2-256 digital signature

verification)

10.2  Conditional Self-Tests
The module performs the following conditional self-tests:

•  Conditional cryptographic algorithm self-tests (CASTs)

o  Crypto Library:

▪  AES ECB encrypt KAT48 (128-bit length)
▪  AES ECB decrypt KAT (128-bit length)
▪  AES CCM encrypt KAT (128-bit length)
▪  AES CCM decrypt KAT (128-bit length)
▪  AES GCM encrypt KAT (256-bit length)
▪  AES GCM decrypt KAT (256-bit length)
▪  CTR DRBG instantiate/generate/reseed KAT (AES, 256-bit, with derivation function)
▪  ECDSA sign KAT (P-256 curve)
▪  ECDSA verify KAT (P-256 curve)
▪  HMAC KATs (SHA-1, SHA2-256, SHA2-384)
▪  RSA sign KAT (2048-bit; SHA2-256; PKCS#1.5 scheme)
▪  RSA verify KAT (2048-bit; SHA2-256; PKCS#1.5 scheme)
▪  SHA-2 KATs (SHA2-224, SHA2-512)
▪  SHA-3 KATs (SHA3-256)
▪  FFC DH Shared Secret “Z” Computation KAT (2048-bit)
▪  ECC CDH Shared Secret “Z” Computation KAT (P-256 curve)

o  Entropy Library:

▪  SHA3-256 KAT

48 KAT – Known Answer Test

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 40 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

▪  Entropy “Stuck” Test
▪  Entropy Repetition Count Test (performed over 1024 samples)
▪  Entropy Adaptive Proportion Test (performed over 1024 samples)

o  KDF Library:

▪  TLS v1.2 KDF KAT
▪  TLS v1.3 KDF KAT
▪  SSH KDF KAT

To ensure all conditional CASTs are performed prior to the first operational use of the associated algorithm,
all CASTs are performed during the module’s initial power-up sequence. The CASTs for algorithms used in
the pre-operational software integrity test are performed prior to the integrity test itself; all other CASTs
are executed immediately after the successful completion of the software integrity test.

•  Conditional pair-wise consistency tests (PCTs)

o  ECDSA key generation PCT (upon generation of a key pair for ECDSA digital signature functions)
o  RSA sign/verify PCT (upon generation of a key pair for RSA digital signature functions)
o  DH key generation PCT (upon generation of a key pair for DH key agreement functions)
o  ECDH key generation PCT (upon generation of a key pair for ECDH key agreement functions)

•  Conditional manual SSP entry test (upon direct entry of an SSP)

•  Conditional software load test using ECDSA P-256 signature verification (upon loading of a new image)

10.3  Self-Test Failure Handling
Upon failure of a pre-operational self-test, conditional CAST, or conditional PCT , the module enters a “Fatal” error
state, keys are zeroized, and the module is automatically reset, with reset reason of “FIPS Failure”. An error is
written to syslog. All access to the cryptographic functionality and CSPs is disabled. All data outputs via data output
interfaces are inhibited (with the exception of syslog status messages) and the management interfaces will not
respond  to  any  commands  while  the  module  is  in  this  state.  A  successful  reboot  is  needed  to  clear  the  error
condition and return to a normal operational state.

Upon failure of the conditional image verification test, the module enters a “Soft Error” state and with error status
logged  in  syslog  and  the  load  process  aborted.  The  error  state  is then  automatically  cleared,  and  the module
resumes normal operation.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 41 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

11.  Life-Cycle Assurance

The sections below describe how to ensure the module is operating in its validated configuration, including the
following:

•  Procedures for secure installation, initialization, startup, and operation of the module
•  Maintenance requirements
•  Administrator and non-Administrator guidance

Operating the module without following the guidance herein (including the use of undocumented services) will
result in non-compliant behavior and is outside the scope of this Security Policy.

11.1  Secure Installation
The module is available as a file containing the virtual appliance image. The Crypto Officer is responsible for all
initial  setup  activities,  including  configuring  the  virtual  machine,  installing  the  guest  operating  system,  and
installing the Mediant SBC application software. For detailed guidance regarding these activities, please see the
AudioCodes Installation Manual, Mediant Virtual Edition (VE) SBC.

To setup the module, the CO must follow the instructions found under the document entry “Installing Mediant VE
SBC on VMware vSphere ESXi” for the Virtual Edition.

Once  the  module  is  installed  with  network  settings  properly  configured,  the  Crypto  Officer  must  then  enable
Approved mode operation.

Initialization

11.2
The  CO  shall  configure  the  module  for  Approved  mode.  operation  This  ensures  that  the  system  will  use  only
Approved cryptographic algorithms and key strengths. To configure the module for operation in the Approved
mode,  the  CO  may  use  the  CLI  or  the  Web  Interface.  Please  refer  to  the  following  documents  for  general
information on the use of the module’s management interfaces:

•  AudioCodes Reference Guide, Command-Line Interface for Media Gateways & SBCs, Version 7.6
•  AudioCodes  User’s  Manual,  Mediant  Software  SBC,  Virtual  (VE),  Cloud  (CE),  and  Server  (SE)  Editions,

Version 7.6

To configure the module for operation in the Approved mode, the CO must perform the following actions:

•  The CO must enable Approved mode. Using the CLI, the CO must issue the FIPSmode enable command.
Using the Web Interface, the module’s mode can be set on the Security Settings page (Setup menu -> IP
Network tab -> Security folder -> Security Settings) and clicking the <Enable FIPS> button.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 42 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

•  General  information  for  configuring  TLS  contexts  (settings  that  define  the  TLS  parameters  used  for
management and other TLS applications) using the Web Interface is addressed in the “Configuring TLS
Certificates” chapter of the AudioCodes User’s Manual.

For operation in the Approved mode, the CO shall open the TLS Contexts table on the TLS Contexts page
(Setup  menu  ->  IP  Network  tab  ->  Security  folder  >  TLS  Contexts)  and  ensure  that  the  contexts  are
configured according to the following guidance:

o  For the “DH Key Size” parameter, the CO may select any supported size except 1024.

o  For “Cipher Server” and “Cipher Client” parameters (applicable to TLS versions 1.0 – 1.2), the CO
shall ensure that only Approved ciphers are used by adding the following to the cipher string to
the cipher string list:

!RC4:!aNULL:!eNULL:!AECDH:!ADH:!CAMELLIA:!ARIA128:!SEED:!kRSA:!3DES

o  For “Cipher Server TLS1.3” and “Cipher Client TLS 1.3” parameters (applicable to TLS version 1.3),
the CO shall ensure that only Approved ciphers are used by removing the following cipher string
from the cipher string list:

TLS_CHACHA20_POLY1305_SHA256

•  General information for configuring SRTP is addressed in the “Configuring SRTP” chapter of each of the
AudioCodes User’s Manual. For operation in the Approved mode , the CO shall open the Media Security
page  (Setup  menu  ->  Signaling  &  Media  tab  ->  Media  folder  ->  Media  Security)  and  ensure  that  the
settings are configured according to the following guidance:

o  For the “Media Security Behavior” parameter, the CO shall select “Mandatory” from the drop-

down list.

o  For the “Aria Protocol Support” parameter, the CO shall ensure it is set to “Disable”.

•  For secure key transfer, the CO shall ensure that derived session keys are transferred to endpoints using
TLS (i.e., force TLS). The CO shall click “New” or “Edit” on the SIP Interfaces table (Setup menu -> Signaling
& Media tab -> Core Entities folder -> SIP Interfaces) and ensure that the settings on the UDP and TCP
ports of each SIP interface are configured according to the following guidance:

o  For the “UDP Port” parameter, the CO shall enter “0”.

o  For the “TCT Port” parameter, the CO shall enter “0”.

•  General  information  for  configuring  remote  management  is  addressed  in  the  ''Configuring  Secured
(HTTPS)  Web''  chapter  of  the  User’s  Manual.  For  securing  RADIUS49 connections  for  operation  in  the
Approved mode, the CO shall open the Web Settings page (Setup menu -> Administration tab -> Web &
CLI  folder  ->  Web  Settings)  and  ensure  that  the  settings  are  configured  according  to  the  following
guidance:

49 RADIUS – Remote Authentication Dial In User Service

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 43 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

o  For the “'Secured Web Connection (HTTPS)” parameter, the CO shall select “HTTPS Only” from

the drop-down list.

Configuring the module into Approved mode will zeroize all persistent CSPs and reset the module.

11.3  Startup
No additional startup steps are required to be performed by end-users.

11.4  Administrator Guidance
The  Crypto Officer  is  responsible  for  initialization  and  security-relevant  configuration  and management  of  the
module.

Once installed, commissioned, and configured, the CO is responsible for maintaining the status of the module to
ensure that it is running in its Approved mode. The Crypto Officer shall monitor the module’s status regularly. If
any  irregular  activity  is  noticed,  or  the  module  is  consistently  reporting  errors,  customers  should  contact
AudioCodes Customer Support. Please refer to section 11 for guidance that the Crypto Officer must follow for the
module to be considered running in an Approved mode of operation.

11.4.1  Default Login Password
The module provides a default login password for first-time module access for the CO only. The CO is required to
change the default login password as part of the initial configuration.

11.4.2  On-Demand Self-Tests
The pre-operational self-tests are automatically performed at power-up. The CO may initiate the pre-operational
self-tests  by  issuing  the  reset  command  over  the  module’s  management  interfaces  or  power-cycling  the  host
server or VM.

Using  the  CLI,  resetting  the  module  is  accomplished  by  issuing  the  reload  now  command.  Using  the  Web
interface,  resetting  the  module  is  accomplished  from  the  Maintenance  Actions  page  (Setup  menu  ->
Administration  tab  ->  Maintenance  folder  ->  Maintenance  Actions)  and  clicking  the  <Reset>  button  on  the
toolbar.

11.4.3  Zeroization
There are many CSPs within the module’s cryptographic boundary including symmetric keys, private keys, public
keys, and login password hashes. CSPs reside in virtual RAM, as well as on virtual storage media within the VM.
All ephemeral keys used by the module are zeroized on reset and power cycle. Private keys and CSPs on the virtual
machine’s  flash  and  hard  disk  can  be  zeroized  by  using  a  CLI  command.  The  public  key  used  for  the  image
verification test is stored in the virtual machine’s flash and hard disk and cannot be zeroized.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 44 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Using the CLI, keys and CSPs are zeroized using the clear security-files command. Successful return from
this command indicates the completion of the zeroization process.

The SNMPv3 Authentication Password and SNMPv3 Privacy Password may be zeroized by the CO entering an all-
zero value using the Web Interface or CLI or importing a new .ini file with a zero value. Both methods will overwrite
and  zeroize  these  CSPs.  Completion  of  the  manual  entry  process  or  of  the  .ini  file  load  process  indicates  the
completion of the zeroization process.

11.4.4  Status and Versioning Information
On the first power up, the module is, by default, in an unconfigured operational state. During initial configuration
and setup, the module is explicitly set to operate in the Approved mode of operation. Authorized operators can
access the module via the CLI and determine the mode of the module.

•  Using the CLI, the mode status can be viewed by issuing the show system security status command.
When the module is properly configured per this Security Policy, the command will return the following
message:

FIPS mode: Enabled

•  Using the Web Interface, the module’s operational status can also be viewed on the  Security Settings

page (Setup menu -> IP Network tab -> Security folder -> Security Settings).

Module  operators  can  also  access  the  module’s  versioning  information  and  correlate  it  to  the  versioning
information shown on the module’s FIPS validation certificate.

•  Using the CLI, the module version can be viewed by issuing the show system version command.

•  Using the Web Interface, the version information can be viewed on the Device Information page (Monitor

menu -> Monitor tab -> Summary folder -> Device Information).

When  executing  on  an  on-prem  virtual  environment,  the  module  name  will  be  reported  as  “Mediant  Virtual
Edition”. When executing in a cloud-based environment, the module name will be reported as “Mediant Cloud
Edition”.

11.4.5  Additional Administrator Guidance
The list below provides additional guidance for module administrators:

•  The CO shall re-instantiate the module if the module has encountered a  fatal error and becomes non-
operational. If power-cycling the module does not correct the error condition, the module is considered
to be compromised or malfunctioned and should be sent back to AudioCodes for repair or replacement.

•  The module allows for the loading of new software and employs a digital signature verification technique
to  test  its  integrity.  All  SSPs  must  be  zeroized  prior  to  the  loading  and  subsequent  execution  of  new
software via the following CLI command:

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 45 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

write factory clear-keys-and-certs

This can also be accomplished via the Software Upgrade wizard. When using the wizard, ensure that the
“Use existing configuration” checkbox on the Load ini file wizard page is cleared and do not select a file
to load. This will restore the module configuration back to factory default settings.

•  To maintain an Approved mode of operation, the CO must ensure that only FIPS-validated software is
loaded. Any operation of the module after loading non-validated software constitutes a departure from
this Security Policy.

11.5  Non-Administrator Guidance
The User does not have the ability to configure sensitive information on the module, with the exception of their
password. The User must be diligent to pick strong passwords and must not reveal their password to anyone.
Additionally, the User should be careful to protect any secret or private keys in their possession.

The following list provides additional policies below that must be followed by module operators:

•

•

In the event  that  the  module’s  power is lost  and then restored, a new key for use  with the  AES GCM
encryption shall be established.

In  order  to comply  with the  key  entry  requirements  described  in  section  9.5.A  of  the  Implementation
Guidance for FIPS PUB 140-3 and the CMVP, entry of plaintext private keys and CSPs using the CLI via the
serial port must be accomplished using a non-networked general-purpose computing device.

•  The module implements the KAS-FFC-SSC and KAS-ECC-SSC key agreement schemes specified in NIST SP

800-56Arev3. This specification requires that certain checks are performed to provide assurance
regarding the keys being used. The following assurance checks are performed by the cryptographic
module:

o  Assurances of domain parameter validity (section 5.5.2 of NIST SP 800-56Arev3)
o  Assurances required by the key pair owner (section 5.6.2.1 of NIST SP 800-56Arev3)
o  Assurances required by the public key recipient (section 5.6.2.2 of NIST SP 800-56Arev3)

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 46 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

12.  Mitigation of Other Attacks

The module does not claim to mitigate any attacks beyond the FIPS 140-3 Level 1 requirements for this validation.
Therefore, per ISO/IEC 19790:2021 section 7.12, requirements for this section are not applicable.

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 47 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Appendix A.  Acronyms and Abbreviations

Table 12 provides definitions for the acronyms and abbreviations used in this document.

Table 12 – Acronyms and Abbreviations

Term

Definition

AC

ACL

AES

ANSI

ASCII

Alternating Current

Access Control List

Advanced Encryption Standard

American National Standards Institute

American Standard Code for Information Interchange

B2BUA

Back-to-Back User Agent

CA

CBC

CCCS

CFB

CKG

CLI

Certificate Authority

Cipher Block Chaining

Canadian Centre for Cyber Security

Cipher Feedback

Cryptographic Key Generation

Command Line Interface

CMVP

Cryptographic Module Validation Program

CO

CPU

CSP

CSR

CTR

CVL

DC

DDOS

DES

DOS

DRBG

DSA

DSP

DTLS

EC

ECC

Crypto Officer

Central Processing Unit

Critical Security Parameter

Certificate Signing Request

Counter

Component Validation List

Direct Current

Distributed Denial-of-Service

Data Encryption Standard

Denial-of-Service

Deterministic Random Bit Generator

Digital Signature Algorithm

Digital Signal Processing

Datagram Transport Layer Security

Elliptical Curve

Elliptical Curve Cryptography

ECC CDH

Elliptical Curve Cryptography Cofactor Diffie Hellman

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 48 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Term

ECDSA

EMC

EMI

Definition

Elliptical Curve Digital Signature Algorithm

Electromagnetic Compatibility

Electromagnetic Interference

FFC DH

Finite Field Cryptography Diffie-Hellman

FIPS

GbE

Gbps

GCM

GUI

HA

HDD

HMAC

HTTPS

ICE

IEEE

iLO

IP

IV

KAS

Federal Information Processing Standard

Gigabit Ethernet

Gigabits per second

Galois/Counter Mode

Graphical User Interface

High Availability

Hard Disk Drive

(Keyed-) Hash Message Authentication Code

Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure

Interactive Connectivity Establishment

Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

Integrated Lights Out

Internet Protocol

Initialization Vector

Key Agreement Scheme

KAS ECC SSC

Key Agreement Scheme - Elliptical Curve Cryptography - Shared Secret Computation

KAS FFC SSC

Key Agreement Scheme - Finite Field Cryptography - Shared Secret Computation

KAT

KDF

LED

MAC

Mbps

MOS

N/A

NAT

NIC

NIST

NTP

Known Answer Test

Key Derivation Function

Light Emitting Diode

Message Authentication Code

Megabits per second

Mean Opinion Score

Not Applicable

Network Address Translation

Network Interface Card

National Institute of Standards and Technology

Network Time Protocol

OAMP

Operations, Administration, Maintenance, and Provisioning

OS

Operating System

PBKDF2

Password-Based Key Derivation Function 2

PBX

Private Branch Exchange

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 49 of 51

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy, Version 0.8

September 19, 2024

Term

PEM

PKCS

PUB

QoE

QoS

Definition

Privacy Enhanced Mail

Public-Key Cryptography Standards

Publication

Quality of Experience

Quality of Service

RADIUS

Remote Authentication Dial In User Service

RAM

RNG

RSA

RTCP

RTP

SAS

SBC

SDES

Random Access Memory

Random Number Generator

Rivest, Shamir, and Adleman

Real-time Transport Control Protocol

Real-time Transport Protocol

Serial Attached Small Computer System Interface

Session Border Controller

Session Description Protocol Security Descriptions

SDRAM

Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory

SFP

SFTP

SHA

SHS

SIP

SNMP

SP

SRTP

SSD

SSH

TCP

TDM

TLS

U

UDP

U.S.

USB

VGA

VLAN

VoIP

Small Form-Factor Pluggable

SSH (or Secure) File Transfer Protocol

Secure Hash Algorithm

Secure Hash Standard

Session Initiation Protocol

Simple Network Management Protocol

Special Publication

Secure Real-Time Transport Protocol

Solid State Drive

Secure Shell

Transport Control Protocol

Time-Division Multiplexing

Transport Layer Security

Rack Unit

User Datagram Protocol

United States

Universal Serial Bus

Video Graphics Array

Virtual Local Area Network

Voice Over Internet Protocol

Mediant Virtual Edition SBC and Cloud Edition SBC 7.6
©2024 AudioCodes Ltd.
This document may be freely reproduced and distributed whole and intact including this copyright notice.
Page 50 of 51

Prepared by:
Corsec Security, Inc.

12600 Fair Lakes Circle, Suite 210
Fairfax, VA 22033
United States of America

Phone: +1 703 267 6050
Email: info@corsec.com
http://www.corsec.com

