Samsung NVMe TCG Opal SSC SEDs BM1733a Series

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Document Version: 1.0

H/W Version:    MZEM515THALC-00AMV

F/W Version:      MPOA3A5Q

Revision History

Version

1.0

Initial Version

Change

2

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Table of Contents

1.  GENERAL

1.1.  SCOPE

1.2.  ACRONYMS

2.  CRYPTOGRAPHIC MODULE SPECIFICATION

2.1.  CRYPTOGRAPHIC BOUNDARY

2.2.  VERSION INFORMATION

2.3.  CRYPTOGRAPHIC FUNCTIONALITY

2.3.1.  APPROVED ALGORITHM

2.3.2.  NON-APPROVED ALGORITHM

2.4.  APPROVED MODE OF OPERATION

3.  CRYPTOGRAPHIC MODULE INTERFACES

4.  ROLES, SERVICES, AND AUTHENTICATION

4.1.  ROLE

4.2.  SERVICE

4.2.1.  APPROVED SERVICES

5.  SOFTWARE/FIRMWARE SECURITY

6.  OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT

7.  PHYSICAL SECURITY

8.  NON-INVASIVE SECURITY

9.  SENSITIVE SECURITY PARAMETER MANAGEMENT

10.  SELF-TESTS

10.1.  PRE-OPERATIONAL TEST

10.2.  CONDITIONAL TEST

11.  LIFE-CYCLE ASSURANCE

11.1.  SECURE INSTALLATION

11.2.  OPERATIONAL DESCRIPTION OF MODULE

12.  MITIGATION OF OTHER ATTACKS

3

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

4

4

4

5

5

6

7

7

7

7

8

9

9

9

9

11

12

13

14

15

16

16

16

17

17

17

18

1.  General

1.1.  Scope

This document  specifies the security policy for Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.  (“Samsung”)  NVMe TCG Opal SSC SEDs
BM1733a Series, herein after referred to as a “cryptographic module” or “module”, SSD (Solid State Drive), satisfies all
applicable FIPS 140-3 Security Level 1 requirements of a hardware module, supporting TCG Opal SSC based SED (Self-
Encrypting Drive) features, designed to protect unauthorized access to the user data stored in its NAND Flash memories.
The built-in AES HW engines in the cryptographic module’s controller provide on-the-fly encryption and decryption of
the user data without performance loss. The SED’s nature also provides instantaneous sanitization of the user data via
cryptographic erase.

ISO/IEC 24759
Section 6.
[Number
Below]

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security Level

General
Cryptographic module specification
Cryptographic module interfaces
Roles, services, and authentication
Software/Firmware security
Operational environment
Physical security
Non-invasive security
Sensitive security parameter management
Self-tests
Life-cycle assurance
Mitigation of other attacks

Table 1. Security Levels

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
N/A
1
1
1
N/A

1.2.  Acronyms

Acronym

Description

CTRL
CPU
DRAM
DRAM I/F
ECC
KAT
LBA
MEK
MSID
NAND
NAND I/F
NVMe
ROM

Controller
Central Processing Unit (ARM-based)
Dynamic Random Access Memory
Dynamic Random Access Memory Interface
Error Correcting Code
Known Answer Test
Logical Block Address
Media Encryption Key
Manufactured SID (Security Identifier)
NAND Flash Memory
NAND Flash Interface
Non-Volatile Memory Host Controller Interface Specification
Read-only Memory

Table 2. Acronyms

4

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

2.  Cryptographic module specification

2.1.  Cryptographic Boundary

The  following  photograph  shows  the  cryptographic  module’s  top  and  bottom  views.  The  multiple-chip  standalone
cryptographic module consists of hardware and firmware components specified version in the Table 3 that are all enclosed
in two aluminum alloy cases, which serve as the cryptographic boundary of the module.

Figure 1. Specification of the Samsung SSD NVMe TCG Opal SSC SEDs BM1733a Series Cryptographic Boundary

5

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

The firmware utilizes a single chip controller with an NVMe interface on the system side as well as Samsung NAND flash. The
following  figure  depicts  the  module  operational  environment.  The  firmware  within  the  scope  of  this  validation  must  be
validated through the FIPS 140-3 CMVP. Any other firmware loaded into this module is out of the scope of this validation and
requires a separate FIPS 140-3 validation.

Figure 2. Block Diagram for Samsung SSD NVMe TCG Opal SSC SEDs BM1733a Series

2.2.  Version information

Model

BM1733a

Hardware Version
MZEM515THALC-00AMV

Firmware Version
MPOA3A5Q

Drive Capacity

15.36TB

Table 3. Cryptographic Module Tested Configuration

6

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

2.3.  Cryptographic Functionality

2.3.1.  Approved Algorithm

The cryptographic module supports the following Approved algorithms for secure data storage:

CAVP Cert

Algorithm and Standard

C12711

A1720

A940

C1272
Vendor
Affirmed
N/A

AES /
FIPS 197, SP 800-38E
DRBG /
SP 800-90A Rev. 1
RSA / FIPS 186-4

SHS / FIPS 180-4
CKG / SP 800-133 rev2

ENT (P) / SP800-90B

Mode/
Method

Description/
Key Size(s)/
Key Strength(s)

Use/Function

XTS,

256 bits

Data Encryption / Decryption

Hash_ DRBG
(SHA-256)
PSS SigVer
(SHA-256)
SHA-256
Section 4 and
Section 6.1
N/A

N/A

3072 bits

N/A
N/A

N/A

Table 4. Approved Algorithms

Deterministic Random Bit
Generation
Digital Signature Verification

Message Digest
Cryptographic Key Generation
(Symmetric Keys)
Non-deterministic Random
Number Generator
(only used for generating seed
materials for the Approved
DRBG)

2.3.2.  Non-Approved Algorithm

Following algorithms are not intended to be used as a security function, and not used whatsoever to meet any FIPS 140-3
requirements. These algorithms are not provided through a non-approved service to an operator.

Algorithm

Caveat

Use / Function

AES-XTS /
FIPS 197, SP 800-38E

No Security Claimed; AES-XTS is only
used for firmware decryption during
ROM initialized.

Firmware Decryption

AES-CCM /
FIPS 197, SP 800-38C
PBKDF2
HMAC /
SHA-256 (SHS Cert.#
C1272)
Table 5. Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security Claimed

No Security Claimed; Non-approved
algorithms here are only used for
encrypting or obfuscating the CSP.

Key Encryption and Decryption

Key Derivation

Key Derivation

2.4.  Approved Mode of Operation

The module only has a single approved mode of operation  and does not have a non-approved mode of operation. The
cryptographic module shows the approved mode through validated version status by Show Status Service in Table 8 via
NVM express Identify Controller command.
The only non-approved algorithms present in the module are allowed in the approved mode of operation with no security
claimed in the module.

1  AES-ECB is the pre-requisite for AES-XTS; AES-ECB alone is NOT supported by the cryptographic module in the approved mode of operation.

7

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

3.  Cryptographic module interfaces

Physical port

Logical interface Type

Data that passes over port/interface

NVMe Connector

JTAG

Data Input / Output

Control Input

Status Output

Power Input

Control Input

Status Output

plaintext data; signed data;
commands input logically via an API; signals input logically or
physically via one or more physical ports
status information output logically via an API; signal outputs
logically or physically via one or more physical ports;
Power input
signals input logically or physically via one or more physical
ports
signal outputs logically or physically via one or more physical
ports;

Table 6. Ports and Interfaces

8

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

4.  Roles, services, and authentication

4.1.  Role

The module does not support role authentication. Roles are implicitly assumed based on the service they are invoking.

Role

Service

Input

Output

Cryptographic
Officer(CO)

Lock/Unlock an LBA Range
Erase an LBA Range’s Data
Update the firmware
Get Random Number
IO Command
FormatNVM / Sanitize / DeleteNS
Revert
Perform Self-Tests

Maintenance2  Diagnostics

LBA Range
LBA Range
FW image binary
N/A
LBA
LBA Range
PSID
N/A
N/A

Table 7. Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

status
status
status
status
status
status
N/A
N/A
N/A

4.2.  Service

4.2.1.  Approved Services

E: EXECUTE; W: WRITE; G: GENERATE; Z: ZEROISE

Service

Description

Show Status5

Lock/Unlock
an LBA Range

Show approved version
status of the module /
FIPS fail mode

Block or allow read
(decrypt) / write
(encrypt) of user data.

Approved
Security
Functions

Type(s) of
Access3

E  W  G  Z

SSPs

Roles

CO

N/A

N/A

AES-XTS

MEK

O  O

  O

Erase an LBA
Range’s Data

Erase user data by
changing the data
encryption key.

Hash_ DRBG
(SHA-256)

Update the
firmware

Update the firmware

RSA

Get Random
Number

Provide a random
number generated by
the CM.

Hash_ DRBG
(SHA-256)

DRBG Internal
State
DRBG Seed

DRBG Entropy
Input String

MEK
FW
Verification
Key
DRBG Internal
State
DRBG Seed
DRBG Entropy

O

  O

O

  O

O

  O

  O  O  O

O

O

O
O

  O

  O
  O

Indicator4

NVM Command:
Identify Controller command
Result : Status Code

UID: Locking_GlobalRange /
Locking_RangeNNNN
TCG Method: Set
Result: TCG status code

UID:
K_AES_256_GlobalRange_Key /
K_AES_256_RangeNNNN_Key
TCG Method: GenKey
Result: TCG status code

Admin Command:
Firmware Commit
Result : Status Code

UID: ThisSP
TCG Method: Random
Result: TCG status code

2  Maintenance role is operator that has responsible for using the JTAG
3  It means that “Write” and “Zeroise” perform in each storage of SSPs that is described in Table 10. The (R)ead column, which is specified in
NIST SP 800-140B, is not applicable to the module.
4  The result of NVMe or TCG command is used as an indicator
5  The cryptographic module shows the hardware version and firmware version through the ‘Model Number (MN)’ and ‘Firmware Revision (FR)’
of Identify Controller Data Structure. If the module enters the FIPS Fail Mode, this service indicates “ERRORMOD” in Firmware Revision (FR).

9

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

IO Command

Read/Write user data

AES-XTS

MEK

Input String

FormatNVM /
Sanitize /
DeleteNS

Erase user data by
changing the data
encryption key.

Hash_ DRBG
(SHA-256)

DRBG Internal
State
DRBG Seed
DRBG Entropy
Input String
MEK

Hash_ DRBG
(SHA-256)

DRBG Internal
State

Revert

Perform Self-
tests

Erase user data in all
Range by changing the
data
Power cycling the
module to perform self-
tests

N/A

Diagnostics

Perform Maintenance

N/A

O

O

O

O

  O

  O

  O

  O  O  O

O

  O

NVM Command:
Write / Read
Result : Status Code

Admin Command:
Format NVM / Sanitize /
Namespace Management
Result : Status Code

UID: SPObj(AdminSP)
TCG Method: Revert
Result: TCG status code

N/A

N/A

  O  N/A

N/A

Maint
enanc
e

Table 8. Approved Services

10

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

5.  Software/Firmware security

-

-

-

-

The cryptographic module employs the 428-byte parity for firmware integrity test

The firmware integrity test is performed when power on reset.

The  masked  ROM  embedded  in  this  module  is  guaranteed  for  a  minimum  10  years  after  manufactured  date  under
effective lifetime.

If this cryptographic module is no longer deployed, secure sanitization can be fulfilled by carrying out the following NVM
Express commands; FormatNVM, Sanitize

11

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

6.  Operational environment

-

-

The cryptographic module operates in a  limited  operational  environment  that  is  consist  of the module’s firmware.  This
operational environment does not require any specific security rules, settings/configurations or restrictions to be set.

The cryptographic module does not provide any general-purpose operating system to the operator.

-  Unauthorized  modification  of  the  firmware  is  prevented  by  the  pre-operational  firmware  integrity  test  and  conditional

firmware load test.

-

Since the cryptographic module is zeroised through the procedure for using maintenance role, it is restricted preventing
uncontrolled access to CSPs and uncontrolled modifications of SSPs.

12

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

7.  Physical security

The following physical security mechanisms are implemented in a cryptographic module:

•

Production grade components.

The  following table  summarizes the actions required by the Cryptographic Officer Role  to ensure that  physical  security is
maintained:

Physical Security Mechanisms

Recommended Frequency of
Inspection/Test

Inspection/Test Guidance Details

Production grade components

N/A

N/A

Table 9. Inspection/Testing of Physical Security Mechanisms

The Cryptographic module supports a maintenance role. The maintenance access interface is defined as the JTAG port. In
compliance with maintenance role requirements, the operator shall perform the following procedures.

•  The  Cryptographic  module  must  be  zeroised  by  operator  via  Revert  service  when  entering  or  exiting  the

maintenance role.

•  The operator should perform the power-on reset the module after exiting the maintenance role. Operator should

confirm the original Firmware revision of the module has not changed.

•  The operator should inspect the JTAG port as often as feasible since the operator is responsible to manage for JTAG

port of the module.

13

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

8.  Non-invasive security

-  Non-invasive security has not applicable for this cryptographic module

14

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

9.  Sensitive security parameter management

-

-

-

-

Temporary SSPs, stored in RAM are zeroised when power on reset.

Firmware integrity temporary values are zeroised after the firmware integrity test is complete

The zeroisation is performed overwriting the target SSP with random value which is creating through the DRBG.

SSPs are not exported to outside.

Key/SSP
Name/ Type

Strength

DRBG  Internal
State6

256-bit

DRBG Seed

256-bit

DRBG  Entropy
Input String

256-bit

Security
Function
and Cert.
Number

A1720
Hash_ DRBG
(SHA-256)
A1720
Hash_ DRBG
(SHA-256)
A1720
Hash_ DRBG
(SHA-256)

Generation

Import
/Export

Establish
ment

Storage

Zeroisation

Use &
related
keys

SP 800-90A
HASH_DRBG
(SHA-256)

N/A

N/A

RAM

Power on Reset  MEK

ENT (P)

N/A

N/A

RAM

Power on Reset  MEK

ENT (P)

N/A

N/A

RAM

Power on Reset  MEK

MEK

256-bit

C1271
AES-XTS

SP 800-90A
HASH_DRBG
(SHA-256)

N/A

N/A

Plain Text
in RAM,
Flash

Firmware
Verification
Key

128-bits

A940
RSA

N/A

Entered
during
manufact
uring

Table 10. SSPs

HW SFR

N/A

Flash

N/A

Via “Unlock an
LBA Range”,
“Erase an LBA
Range’s Data”,
“Revert” and
“FormatNVM /
Sanitize /
DeleteNS” service

Right  after  FW
load test

N/A

Firmware
Load Test

The module contains an entropy source, compliant with SP 800-90B, within the module’s cryptographic boundary.

Entropy sources

Minimum number of bits of entropy

Details

ENT (P)

- 0.5 entropy per bit
- Minimum of 256 bits of entropy for DRBG seed
(total seed size of 512 bits).

Entropy source for Hash_DRBG

Table 11. Non-Deterministic Random Number Generation Specification

6 The values of V and C are the “secret values” of the internal state

15

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

10. Self-tests

While executing the following self-tests, all data output is inhibited until self-test completion. To execute the pre-operational
tests on-demand, the operator may power-cycle the module. If a cryptographic module fails a self-test, the module will enter
an error state. While in this state, all data output is inhibited.

10.1.  Pre-operational test

•

F/W integrity check

-

Firmware integrity check is performed by using 428-byte parity at power-on.

10.2.  Conditional test

•

Cryptographic Algorithm Tests

Description

KATs for Hash_DRBG (SHA-256) described in SP 800-90A Section 11.3.1, 11.3.2, 11.3.3, 11.3.4
AES256 XTS mode Encrypt and Decrypt KAT performed
Hash Digest KAT performed (SHA-256)
Signature verification KAT are performed (RSA 2048 PSS with SHA-256)

Algorithm

Hash_DRBG
AES-XTS
SHA-256
RSA, 2048
modulus with
SHA-256

•

Firmware load test

Table 12. Self-tests

-

Firmware load test is performed using RSA-3072 with SHA-256 when new FW is downloaded.

•  Health test

The cryptographic module has performed the below 2 types of tests and each test includes the Repetition Count test
and Adaptive Proportion test described in SP800-90B.

-

-

Start-up test is performed for Entropy Source after power on reset.

Continuous test is performed for Entropy Source while the module is operating

16

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

11. Life-cycle assurance

11.1.  Secure Installation

•

Identify the firmware version in the device

-

Confirm  that  the  firmware  version  is  equivalent  to  the  version(s)  listed  in  this  document  via  NVM  express
Identify Controller command.

11.2.  Operational Description of Module

•

•
•
•

•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•

•

The cryptographic module shall maintain logical separation of data input, data output, control input, control output,
and power.
The cryptographic module shall not output CSPs in any form.
The cryptographic module shall use the Approved DRBG for generating all cryptographic keys.
The cryptographic module shall enforce a limited operational environment by the secure firmware load test using
RSA PSS-3072 with SHA-256.
The cryptographic module shall provide a production-grade cryptographic boundary.
The Cryptographic module enters the error state upon failure of Self-tests. most commands except for supported
command from the Host (General Purpose Computer (GPC) outside the cryptographic boundary) are rejected in the
error state and the IO command returns Namespace Not Ready (SC=0x82, SCT=0x0), the other commands return
Internal Error (SC=0x6, SCT=0x0) defined in NVMe specification via the status output. Cryptographic services and
data output are explicitly inhibited when in the error state. When module fails FW Integrity checks performed by
Mask ROM, the module will fail to boot; module will not service any requests or provide any status output (module
hangs).
The cryptographic module satisfies the requirements of FIPS 140-3 IG C.I (i.e. key_1 ≠ key_2)
The module generates at a minimum 256 bits of entropy for use in key generation.
Bypass capability is not applicable to the cryptographic module
Critical functions are not applicable to the cryptographic module
The module generates symmetric keys which are unmodified outputs from the DRBG.
To enter or exit the maintenance role, the operator shall perform zeroisation via Revert Service, and should perform
power-on reset the module after exiting the maintenance role. Operator should confirm the firmware version of
the module specified in the Table 3 has not been changed.
If you require the TCG Opal SSC SED Product Manual, kindly contact the Samsung security certification team via
email at security_cert@samsung.com.

17

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

12. Mitigation of other attacks

The cryptographic module has not been designed to mitigate any specific attacks beyond the scope of FIPS 140-3

Other Attacks

Mitigation
Mechanism

Specific Limitations

N/A

N/A

N/A

Table 13. Mitigation of Other Attacks

18

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. SSD FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

