Advanced Micro Devices (AMD)

AMD ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor ("Phoenix")

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Prepared for:

Advanced Micro Devices (AMD)

2485 Augustine Drive

Santa Clara, CA 95054

www.amd.com

Prepared by:

atsec information security corporation

4516 Seton Center Parkway, Suite 250

Austin, TX 78759

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 1 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Table of Contents

1 General ................................................................................................................................... 5

1.1 Overview .......................................................................................................................... 5

1.2 Security Levels ................................................................................................................. 5

2 Cryptographic Module Specification ........................................................................................ 5

2.1 Description ....................................................................................................................... 5

2.2 Tested and Vendor Affirmed Module Version and Identification ........................................ 7

2.3 Excluded Components ...................................................................................................... 8

2.4 Modes of Operation .......................................................................................................... 8

2.5 Algorithms ........................................................................................................................ 8

2.6 Security Function Implementations ................................................................................... 9

2.7 Algorithm Specific Information .......................................................................................... 9

2.8 RBG and Entropy ............................................................................................................. 9

2.9 Key Generation................................................................................................................. 9

2.10 Key Establishment .......................................................................................................... 9

2.11 Industry Protocols ..........................................................................................................10

3 Cryptographic Module Interfaces............................................................................................10

3.1 Ports and Interfaces ........................................................................................................10

4 Roles, Services, and Authentication .......................................................................................10

4.1 Authentication Methods ...................................................................................................10

4.2 Roles ...............................................................................................................................10

4.3 Approved Services ..........................................................................................................10

4.4 Non-Approved Services ...................................................................................................11

4.5 External Software/Firmware Loaded ................................................................................11

5 Software/Firmware Security ...................................................................................................11

5.1 Integrity Techniques ........................................................................................................11

5.2 Initiate on Demand ..........................................................................................................11

6 Operational Environment........................................................................................................12

6.1 Operational Environment Type and Requirements ..........................................................12

6.2 Configuration Settings and Restrictions ...........................................................................12

7 Physical Security ....................................................................................................................12

7.1 Mechanisms and Actions Required..................................................................................12

8 Non-Invasive Security ............................................................................................................12

9 Sensitive Security Parameters Management ..........................................................................12

9.1 Storage Areas .................................................................................................................12

9.2 SSP Input-Output Methods ..............................................................................................13

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 2 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

9.3 SSP Zeroization Methods ................................................................................................13

9.4 SSPs ...............................................................................................................................13

9.5 Transitions .......................................................................................................................13

10 Self-Tests .............................................................................................................................14

10.1 Pre-Operational Self-Tests ............................................................................................14

10.2 Conditional Self-Tests ....................................................................................................14

10.3 Periodic Self-Test Information ........................................................................................14

10.4 Error States ...................................................................................................................15

10.5 Operator Initiation of Self-Tests .....................................................................................15

11 Life-Cycle Assurance ...........................................................................................................15

11.1 Installation, Initialization, and Startup Procedures ..........................................................15

11.2 Administrator Guidance .................................................................................................17

11.3 Non-Administrator Guidance ..........................................................................................17

11.4 Design and Rules ..........................................................................................................17

11.5 Maintenance Requirements ...........................................................................................17

11.6 End of Life .....................................................................................................................18

12 Mitigation of Other Attacks ...................................................................................................18

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 3 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

List of Tables

Table 1: Security Levels ............................................................................................................. 5
Table 2: Tested Module Identification – Software, Firmware, Hybrid (Executable Code Sets) .... 7
Table 3: Tested Module Identification – Hybrid Disjoint Hardware .............................................. 7
Table 4: Tested Operational Environments - Software, Firmware, Hybrid .................................. 8
Table 5: Modes List and Description .......................................................................................... 8
Table 6: Approved Algorithms .................................................................................................... 8
Table 7: Security Function Implementations ............................................................................... 9
Table 8: Ports and Interfaces ....................................................................................................10
Table 9: Roles ...........................................................................................................................10
Table 10: Approved Services ....................................................................................................11
Table 11: Storage Areas ...........................................................................................................12
Table 12: SSP Input-Output Methods ........................................................................................13
Table 13: SSP Zeroization Methods ..........................................................................................13
Table 14: SSP Table 1 ..............................................................................................................13
Table 15: SSP Table 2 ..............................................................................................................13
Table 16: Pre-Operational Self-Tests ........................................................................................14
Table 17: Conditional Self-Tests ...............................................................................................14
Table 18: Pre-Operational Periodic Information .........................................................................14
Table 19: Conditional Periodic Information ................................................................................15
Table 20: Error States ...............................................................................................................15

List of Figures

Figure  1:  The  AMD  Ryzen  PRO  7000  Series  SoC,  representing  all  versions  of  the  tested
platforms. ................................................................................................................................... 6
Figure 2: Block Diagram ............................................................................................................. 7
Figure 3: AFF Tool indicates that the module is not installed. ....................................................16
Figure 4: AFF Tool indicating that the module is installed. ........................................................17

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 4 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

1 General
1.1 Overview

This section is informative to the reader to reference cryptographic services and other services of
AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor (the “module”) from Advanced
Micro Devices (AMD) (the “vendor”). Only the components listed in Section 2.1 are subject to the
FIPS  140-3  validation.  The  CMVP  (Cryptographic  Module  Validation  Program)  makes  no
statement  as to  the correct  operation  of  the module  or  the security strengths  of the  generated
keys  (when  supported)  if  the  specific  operational  environment  is  not  listed  on  the  validation
certificate.

The vendor has provided the non-proprietary Security Policy of the cryptographic module, which
was  further  consolidated  into  this  document  by  atsec  information  security  together  with  other
vendor-supplied  documentation.  In  preparing  the  Security  Policy  document,  the  laboratory
formatted  the  vendor-supplied  documentation  for  consolidation  without  altering  the  technical
statements therein contained. The further refining of the Security Policy document was conducted
iteratively throughout the conformance testing, wherein the Security Policy was submitted to the
vendor, who would then edit, modify, and add technical contents. The vendor would also supply
additional  documentation,  which  the  laboratory formatted  into  the  existing  Security  Policy,  and
resubmitted to the vendor for their final editing.

1.2 Security Levels

Section
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12

Security Level
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
N/A
1
1
1
N/A
Table 1: Security Levels

2 Cryptographic Module Specification
2.1 Description

Purpose and Use:

The AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor (hereafter referred to as “the
module”)  supports  the  Ryzen  PRO  7000  Series  SoC  (System  on  a  Chip)  by  providing  digital
signature verification of the key database during secure boot procedures.

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 5 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Module Type: Firmware-hybrid

Module Embodiment: SingleChip

Module Characteristics:

Cryptographic Boundary:

The cryptographic boundary of the module is defined as the fips_module binary, which performs
self-tests,  provides  the  service  indicator,  and  shows  status  service,  as  well  as  the  hardware
implementations  of  RSA  and  SHA2-384  in  the  CCP,  which  are  used  to  perform  signature
verification and verify the integrity of the fips_module binary.

Tested Operational Environment’s Physical Perimeter (TOEPP):

The TOEPP of the module is defined as the Ryzen PRO 7000 Series SoC in which the module
operates.

Figure 1: The AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series SoC, representing all versions of the tested platforms.

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 6 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Figure 2: Block Diagram

2.2 Tested and Vendor Affirmed Module Version and Identification

Tested Module Identification – Hardware:

N/A for this module.

Tested Module Identification – Software, Firmware, Hybrid (Executable Code Sets):

Package  or  File
Name
fips_module.bin

Software/  Firmware
Version
bc0d0443FIPS001

SHA2-384
Table 2: Tested Module Identification – Software, Firmware, Hybrid (Executable Code Sets)

Features

Integrity Test

Tested Module Identification – Hybrid Disjoint Hardware:

and/or  Part

Model
Number
RSA  and  SHA2-384
implementations in CCP

Hardware
Version
bc0d0346FIPS001

Firmware
Version

Processors

Features

AMD  Ryzen  PRO
7640HS
(100-
000000960)

Table 3: Tested Module Identification – Hybrid Disjoint Hardware

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 7 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Tested Operational Environments - Software, Firmware, Hybrid:

Operating
System
N/A

Hardware
Platform
AMD
Ryzen
PRO  7640HS
(100-
000000960)

Processors

Ryzen
7640HS

AMD
PRO
(100-
000000960)

PAA/PAI  Hypervisor
or Host OS
N/A

No

Version(s)

bc0d0346FIPS001

Table 4: Tested Operational Environments - Software, Firmware, Hybrid

Vendor-Affirmed Operational Environments - Software, Firmware, Hybrid:

N/A for this module.

2.3 Excluded Components

There  are  no  components  within  the  cryptographic  boundary  that  are  excluded  from  the  FIPS
140-3 security requirements.

2.4 Modes of Operation

Modes List and Description:

Mode Name  Description
Approved
mode

Whenever  the  module  is
operational

Table 5: Modes List and Description

Type
Approved  The  module  always  operates  in  the

Status Indicator

approved mode

The module implements only one mode of operation, the approved mode, in which the approved
services are available. No configuration is necessary for the module to operate and remain in the
approved mode.

After  passing  all  pre-operational  self-tests  and  cryptographic  algorithm  self-tests  executed  on
start-up, the module automatically transitions to the approved mode.

2.5 Algorithms

Approved Algorithms:

Algorithm

RSA
(FIPS186-4)
SHA2-384

SigVer

CAVP
Cert
A4201

A4201

Table 6: Approved Algorithms

Properties

Type

Signature
Modulo - 4096
Message  Length  -  Message  Length:  0-
65536 Increment 8

PKCSPSS

-

Reference

FIPS 186-4

FIPS 180-4

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 8 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Vendor-Affirmed Algorithms:

N/A for this module.

Non-Approved, Allowed Algorithms:

N/A for this module.

Non-Approved, Allowed Algorithms with No Security Claimed:

N/A for this module.

Non-Approved, Not Allowed Algorithms:

N/A for this module.

2.6 Security Function Implementations

Name
Digital Signature
Verification

Type
DigSig-SigVer

Description
Verify a digital
signature

Properties

Message Digest  SHA

Compute a
message digest

Table 7: Security Function Implementations

2.7 Algorithm Specific Information

There is no algorithm specific information.

2.8 RBG and Entropy

N/A for this module.

N/A for this module.

2.9 Key Generation

Algorithms
RSA SigVer
(FIPS186-4)
Key size: 4096
bits
SHA2-384
SHA2-384

The module does not implement any key generation methods.

2.10 Key Establishment

The module does not implement any automated key establishment methods.

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 9 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

2.11 Industry Protocols

The module does not implement any industry protocols.

3 Cryptographic Module Interfaces
3.1 Ports and Interfaces

Physical
Port
SRAM
SRAM
SRAM
SRAM
Power port  Power

Data That Passes

Logical
Interface(s)
Data Input
Data Output
Control Input  API function calls, API input parameters for control
Status Output  API return codes, status values

API input parameters for data
API output parameters for data

Power

Table 8: Ports and Interfaces

The  logical  interfaces  are  logically  separated  from  each  other  by  the  API  design.  The  power
interface is physically separated from any other interface.

4 Roles, Services, and Authentication
4.1 Authentication Methods

N/A for this module.

4.2 Roles

Name
Crypto Officer

Table 9: Roles

Type
Role

Operator Type  Authentication Methods
None
CO

The module supports the Crypto Officer role only. This sole role is implicitly and always assumed
by the operator of the module. No support is provided for multiple concurrent operators.

4.3 Approved Services

Name

Description

Indicator

Inputs

Outputs  Security

Digital
Signature
Verification

Verify a digital
signature

1

Message,
public key,
signature

Functions

Pass/fail  Digital

Signature
Verification

Show
Version

Return the
module

None

None

Module
version

None

SSP
Access
Crypto
Officer
- RSA
public
key: W,E
Crypto
Officer

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 10 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Name

Description

Indicator

Inputs

Outputs  Security

Functions

version
information
Show Status  Return the

Self-test

module status
Initiate on-
demand self-
tests by reset

None

None

None

None

None

Module
status
Pass/fail  Digital

Zeroization

Zeroize all
SSPs

None

None

None

Table 10: Approved Services

SSP
Access

Crypto
Officer
Crypto
Officer

Crypto
Officer
- RSA
public
key: Z

Signature
Verification
Message
Digest
None

The  approved  service  indicator  can  be  retrieved  using  Microsoft  HSTI  and  through  the  UEFI
interactive  shell  tool.  As  the  module  only  offers  approved  services,  the  indicator  is  always  set
when the module is operational. This is shown by the “FIPS mode: 1” output.

4.4 Non-Approved Services

N/A for this module.

4.5 External Software/Firmware Loaded

The module does not load external software or firmware.

5 Software/Firmware Security
5.1 Integrity Techniques

The integrity of the firmware component of the module (“fips_module.bin”) is verified by comparing
a  SHA2-384  digest  value  calculated  at  run  time  with  the  SHA2-384  digest  value  stored  in  the
module that was computed at build time.

5.2 Initiate on Demand

The integrity test is performed as part of the pre-operational self-tests, which are executed when
the  module  is  initialized.  The  integrity  tests  can  be  invoked  on  demand  by  powering  off  and
subsequently re-initializing the module or SoC, which will perform (among others) the firmware
integrity test.

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 11 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

6 Operational Environment
6.1 Operational Environment Type and Requirements

Type of Operational Environment: Non-Modifiable

How Requirements are Satisfied:

The operational environment provides context separation for the memory and registers utilized
by  the  module.  When  these  components  are  used  by  the  module,  no  other  process  or  sub-
component can access the information concurrently.

6.2 Configuration Settings and Restrictions

No  configuration  of  the  operational  environment  is  required  for  the  module  to  operate  in  an
approved mode. Therefore, there are no rules, settings, or restrictions to the configuration of the
operational environment.

7 Physical Security
7.1 Mechanisms and Actions Required

N/A for this module.

The embodiment of the module is a single chip consisting of production-grade components. The
coating is a standard sealing coat applied over the single chip. The module provides no additional
physical  security  techniques.  No  actions  are  required  to  maintain  the  physical  security  of  the
module.

8 Non-Invasive Security
This module does not implement any non-invasive security mechanism and therefore this section
is not applicable.

9 Sensitive Security Parameters Management
9.1 Storage Areas

Description

Storage
Area
Name
SRAM

Temporary storage for SSPs used by the module as part of service
execution
Table 11: Storage Areas

Persistence
Type

Dynamic

SSPs are provided to the module by the calling process and are destroyed when released by the
respective functions.

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 12 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

9.2 SSP Input-Output Methods

Name

From

To

Format
Type

Distribution
Type

SRAM  Plaintext  Manual

API input
parameters

Operator
residing on
TOEPP

Table 12: SSP Input-Output Methods

9.3 SSP Zeroization Methods

Entry
Type
Electronic

SFI or
Algorithm

Zeroization
Method
Remove power
from the SoC

Description

Rationale

De-allocates the
volatile memory used
to store SSPs

Volatile memory used by the
module is overwritten within
nanoseconds when power is
removed

Table 13: SSP Zeroization Methods

Operator
Initiation
By
removing
power

All data output is inhibited during zeroization.

9.4 SSPs

Name  Description

RSA
public
key

Public key
used for RSA
signature
verification
Table 14: SSP Table 1

Size -
Strength
4096 bits
- 150 bits

Type -
Category
Public key
- PSP

Generated
By

Established
By

Used By

Digital
Signature
Verification

Name

RSA
public
key

Input -
Output
API input
parameters

Storage

Storage
Duration

SRAM:Plaintext  For the duration

of the service

Zeroization

Remove power
from the SoC

Related
SSPs

Table 15: SSP Table 2

9.5 Transitions

The  RSA  algorithm  as  implemented  by  the  module  conforms  to  FIPS  186-4,  which  has  been
superseded by FIPS 186-5. FIPS 186-4 was withdrawn on February 3, 2024.

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 13 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

10 Self-Tests
10.1 Pre-Operational Self-Tests

Algorithm or
Test
SHA2-384
(A4201)

Test
Properties
N/A

Test
Method
Message
digest

Table 16: Pre-Operational Self-Tests

Test Type

Indicator

Details

SW/FW
Integrity

Module is
operational

Performed on
fips_module.bin

The  pre-operational  firmware  integrity  test  is  performed  automatically  when  the  module  is
powered on before the module transitions into the operational state. While the module is executing
the self-test, services are not available, and data output (via the data output interface) is inhibited
until the tests are successfully completed. The module transitions to the operational state only
after the pre-operational self-test passed successfully.

10.2 Conditional Self-Tests

Algorithm
or Test
SHA2-384
(A4201)

Test
Properties
32-bit
message

Test
Method
KAT

Indicator

Test
Type
CAST  Module

is
operational

Message
digest

Details

Conditions

RSA  SigVer
(FIPS186-4)
(A4201)

PSS
using
4096-bit  key
with  SHA2-
384

Table 17: Conditional Self-Tests

KAT

CAST  Module

is
operational

Signature
verification

The module performs self-tests on all approved cryptographic algorithms as part of the approved
services supported in the approved mode of operation, using the tests shown in the table above.
These self-tests are performed automatically before the firmware integrity test. Services are not
available, and data output (via the data output interface) is inhibited during the self-tests. If any of
these tests fails, the module transitions to the error state.

10.3 Periodic Self-Test Information

Algorithm or
Test
SHA2-384
(A4201)

Test Method

Test Type

Period

Message digest  SW/FW Integrity  On demand

Periodic
Method
By resetting the
module

Table 18: Pre-Operational Periodic Information

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 14 of 18

Module
initialization
(before
integrity test)
Module
initialization
(before
integrity test)

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Algorithm or
Test
SHA2-384
(A4201)
RSA SigVer
(FIPS186-4)
(A4201)

Test Method

Test Type

Period

KAT

KAT

CAST

CAST

On demand

On demand

Periodic
Method
By resetting the
module
By resetting the
module

Table 19: Conditional Periodic Information

The module does not implement any periodic self-tests.

10.4 Error States

Name  Description

Conditions

Error  Module immediately

stops executing

SHA2-384
CAST error
RSA CAST
error
Integrity test
error

Table 20: Error States

Recovery
Method
Resetting the
module

Indicator

Error code (AA0000FB,
AA0000FC, or AA0000FD)

In  the  error  state,  the  output  interface  is  inhibited,  and  the  module  accepts  no  more  inputs  or
requests (as the module is no longer running). The error code is output through the FW status
register, which explains the error that has occurred.

10.5 Operator Initiation of Self-Tests

All self-tests can be invoked on demand by unloading and subsequently re-initializing the module.

11 Life-Cycle Assurance
11.1 Installation, Initialization, and Startup Procedures

The procedures herein described are directed at OEMs for producing and configuring their BIOS
so that the FIPS module is properly enabled to operate as the validated module in conformance
with the rules in this Security Policy document.

Once properly installed and enabled, no configuration is necessary for the module to operate and
remain in the approved mode, as it is the only mode of operation of the module.

To enable the FIPS capability

1.  Reserve 16KiB at least for AMD Secure Processor level 1 directory, as the FIPS module
requires additional 8KiB of ROM space for the AMD Secure Processor L1 Bootloader.

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 15 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Processor

2.  The  Platform  BIOS  must  include  the  file  with  “_FIPS”  postfix  in  the  file  name  as  AMD
Secure
file
0x1.
PspBootLoader_stage1_prod_AB_RN_FIPS.sbin  has  “_FIPS”  postfix  in  the  file  name.
This file is thus a FIPS capable AMD Secure Processor boot loader. Conversely, the file
PspBootLoader_stage1_prod_AB_RN.sbin does not have “_FIPS” postfix in the file name,
making this file a non-FIPS capable AMD Secure Processor boot loader.

example,

entry

For

the

3.  Set BIT 32 of AMD Secure Processor soft fuse chain (AMD Secure Processor entry 0xB)

to enable FIPS capability.

a.  The  BIT32  in  AMD  Secure  Processor  entry  0xB  is  defined  as  FIPS  capability
enablement. If 0, the FIPS capability is OFF; if 1, the FIPS capability is ON (i.e.,
the  module  is  properly  installed  as  the  validated  module  described  in  this
document).

To verify whether FIPS capability is on

1.  Boot the system into UEFI shell with secure boot disabled.
2.  Use the UEFI shell version of the AFF Tool version 0.3 and beyond. This tool is provided
by the vendor. Run the AFF Tool with the command: afftool --fips from the interactive UEFI
shell provided by the BIOS.

a.  If it shows “FIPS mode: on”, this is the FIPS capable module installed.
b.  If  it  shows  “FIPS  mode:  off”,  the  module  (described  in  this  document)  is  not

installed.

The screenshot in Figure 3 shows the usage of the AFF Tool. The output indicates that the FIPS
module is not installed. In this condition, the module does not operate in conformance with this
Security Policy document.

Figure 3: AFF Tool indicates that the module is not installed.

The screenshot in Figure 4 again shows the usage of the AFF Tool. The output demonstrates that
the FIPS module is installed and thus will operate as the FIPS validated module according to the
rules in this Security Policy document.

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 16 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

Figure 4: AFF Tool indicating that the module is installed.

11.2 Administrator Guidance

All  the  functions,  ports  and  logical  interfaces  described  in  this  document  are  available  to  the
Crypto Officer. The module only provides approved functions, and as such there are no special
procedures to administer the approved mode of operation.

11.3 Non-Administrator Guidance

The module implements only the Crypto Officer. There are no requirements for non-administrator
operators.

11.4 Design and Rules

The  bootloader  (which  acts  as  the  operator  of  the  module)  initializes  the  fips_module.bin
component  by  loading  it  into  memory  upon  power-on.  After  the  pre-operational  self-tests  are
successfully  concluded,  the  module  automatically  transitions  to  the  operational  state.  In  the
operational state, the module automatically performs the signature verification of the key database
using the RSA signature verification service, which is the sole service provided by the module.
The key database, RSA public key, and signature are provided as input by the operator of the
module  (the  bootloader).  After  the  successful  signature  verification  of  the  key  database,  the
module unloads itself from memory, ceasing its operation.

All the procedures described above are conducted without any human assistance. To perform the
procedures again, the module must be reset, which will trigger a new boot.

11.5 Maintenance Requirements

There are no maintenance requirements.

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 17 of 18

AMD Ryzen PRO 7000 Series ASP Cryptographic CoProcessor                                       FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

11.6 End of Life

The  process  for  performing  “End  of  Life”  occurs at the  chronological  point  of  10  years starting
from manufacturing date of the module.

As stated previously, the module does not possess persistent storage of SSPs. The SSP values
only  exists  in  volatile  memory  and  those  values  vanish  when  the  module  is  powered  off.  The
procedure for secure sanitization of the module at the end of life is simply to power it off, which is
the action of zeroization of the SSPs. As a result of this sanitization via power-off, the SSPs are
removed  from  the  module,  so  that  the  module  may  either  be  distributed  to  other  operators  or
disposed.

12 Mitigation of Other Attacks
The module does not offer mitigation of other attacks and therefore this section is not applicable.

© 2024 Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), atsec information security.
This document can be reproduced and distributed only whole and intact, including this copyright notice.

Page 18 of 18

