Micron Technology

Micron Technology

Micron 7400 SSD Controller Sub Chip Security Subsystem

Non-Proprietary FIPS 140-3 Security Policy

Document Version: 1.3
Date: April 11th, 2024

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Micron Technology

Table of Contents

1  General ............................................................................................................................ 4

2

Cryptographic Module Specification ................................................................................ 5

2.1  Operational Environment .............................................................................................................5
2.2  Cryptographic Boundary ..............................................................................................................5
2.3  Modes of Operation .....................................................................................................................6
2.4  Security Functions ........................................................................................................................7
2.5  Security Function Implementation ...............................................................................................9
2.6  Overall Security Design.................................................................................................................9
2.7  Rules of Operation .................................................................................................................... 10

3

Cryptographic Module Interfaces................................................................................... 11

4  Roles, Services and Authentication ................................................................................ 12

4.1  Assumption of Roles and Related Services ............................................................................... 12
4.2  Authentication Methods ........................................................................................................... 13
4.3  Services ...................................................................................................................................... 13

5

Software/Firmware Security .......................................................................................... 17

6  Operational Environment .............................................................................................. 18

7

Physical Security ............................................................................................................ 19

8  Non-Invasive Security .................................................................................................... 19

9

Sensitive Security Parameter (SSP) Management .......................................................... 20

9.1  Sensitive Security Parameters (SSP) .......................................................................................... 20
9.2  DRBG Randomness Source ........................................................................................................ 23

10  Self-Tests ....................................................................................................................... 23

11  Life-Cycle Assurance ...................................................................................................... 24

11.1 Security Initialization ................................................................................................................. 24

12  Mitigation of Other Attacks ........................................................................................... 25

13  References and Definitions ............................................................................................ 25

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 2 of 26

Micron Technology

List of Tables

Table 1 – Security Levels .................................................................................................................................. 4
Table 2 – Cryptographic Module Tested Configuration ................................................................................... 5
Table 3 – Approved Algorithms ....................................................................................................................... 7
Table 4 – Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security Claimed
 ......................................................................................................................................................................... 9
Table 5 - Security Function Implementation .................................................................................................... 9
Table 6 – Ports and Interfaces ....................................................................................................................... 11
Table 7 – Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output................................................................................. 12
Table 8 – Roles and Authentication ............................................................................................................... 13
Table 9 – Approved Services .......................................................................................................................... 14
Table 10 – Physical Security Inspection Guidelines ....................................................................................... 19
Table 11 – SSPs ............................................................................................................................................... 20
Table 12 – Error States and Indicators ........................................................................................................... 23
Table 13 – Pre-Operational Self-Test ............................................................................................................. 23
Table 14 – Conditional Self-Tests ................................................................................................................... 24
Table 15 – References .................................................................................................................................... 25
Table 16– Acronyms and Definitions ............................................................................................................. 26

List of Figures

Figure 1 – Micron 7400 ASIC ............................................................................................................................ 5
Figure 2 – Module ............................................................................................................................................ 6
Figure 3 – Tamper Evidence Example ............................................................................................................ 19

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 3 of 26

Micron Technology

1  General

This document defines the non-proprietary Security Policy for the Micron Technology, Inc. Micron 7400 SSD
Controller  Security  Subsystem  module,  hereafter  denoted  as  the  Module.  The  Module  is  a  Single  Chip
Hardware sub-chip cryptographic subsystem, as defined in FIPS 140-3 Implementation Guidance 2.3.B.

The FIPS 140-3 security levels for the Module are as follows:

Table 1 – Security Levels

ISO/IEC 24759 Section
6. [Number Below]

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

Security Level

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

General

Cryptographic Module Specification

Cryptographic Module Interfaces

Roles, Services and, Authentication

Software/Firmware Security

Operational Environment

Physical Security

Non-Invasive Security

Sensitive Security Parameter Management

Self-Tests

Life-Cycle Assurance

Mitigation of Other Attacks

2

2

2

2

2

N/A

2

N/A

2

2

2

N/A

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 4 of 26

Micron Technology

2  Cryptographic Module Specification

The  Module  is  a  Single  Chip  Hardware  Sub-Chip  cryptographic  module  operating  on  a  single  chip
embodiment.

The Module is intended for use by US Federal agencies or other markets that require FIPS 140-3 validated
cryptographic  controllers.  The  Module  is  embedded  in  the  ASIC  7400  Controller  package  (see  Figure  1
below).

Figure 1 – Micron 7400 ASIC

2.1  Operational Environment

The cryptographic module is tested on the following operational environment.

Table 2 – Cryptographic Module Tested Configuration

Model

Hardware [Part Number and
version]

Firmware version

SCCS v1.0

Micron 7400
SSD Controller
Security
Subsystem

Runtime SCSS v2.3
Bootloader v1.0
Function ROM v2.0
Boot ROM v1.0

Distinguishing
Features

Tested Configuration:
7400 SSD
Controller v20190703

Module operational environment information is provided from the Module from the get status service and
is returned from the controller as TCG Level 0 discovery content.

2.2  Cryptographic Boundary

The physical form of the Module is depicted above in Figure 1. The cryptographic boundary of the Module
is defined by the Security Subsystem and includes all cryptographic algorithm implementations. The physical
embodiment is the Micron 7400 Controller ASIC and includes its package. The cryptographic boundary is
depicted  by  the  red  outline  line  in  Figure  2  below.  The  Module  is  a  Single  Chip  Hardware  Sub-Chip
cryptographic  module  operating  on  a  single  chip  embodiment.  Table  2  above  specifies  the  firmware
components of the module.

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 5 of 26

Micron Technology

M7400 SSD

M7400 Controller

NVMe

Security
Subsystem

NAND

NAND

NAND

NAND

NAND

NAND

NAND

NAND

NAND

NAND

NAND

NAND

Figure 2 – Module

2.3  Modes of Operation

The Module only supports an Approved mode and cannot be configured to operate otherwise. To verify
that the Module is in the Approved mode of operation, the operator may invoke the “Get Status” service,
which will indicate the Approved mode of operation, as well as the version information for the Module.

The following states are defined for the module.

•  Firmware Load State – In this state, the Module is capable of performing self-tests, key manifest

verification, and firmware loading.

•  NVMe State – In this operating state, TCG ownership of the drive has not been taken. In this state

the SSD provides services through NVME industry standard commands.

•  TCG State – Once TCG ownership has been taken the Module shall operate in this state. In this
state the SSD provides services through NVME industry standard commands as well as TCG
commands addressed to both the TCG Admin SP and the TCG locking SP. In addition, extra
features are provided through the TCG commands. These commands are processed within the
controller and are translated into security subsystem services. The Module provides these services
to support the TCG mode of operation but is not responsible for TCG management functions. To
initialize in this mode, the Module owner must take ownership of the device by invoking the
Activate method on the Locking SP. This State has the capability to have multiple Users with
independent access control to read, write or erase the data areas (LBA ranges).

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 6 of 26

Micron Technology

Note: By default, the drive is issued with a single namespace encompassing the whole capacity of
the drive. Once the drive is TCG activated this default namespace’s attributes are managed by the
TCG “Global Range”.

2.4  Security Functions

The Module implements the cryptographic functions listed in table 3 below. The numbers and letters within
square brackets reference standards which are defined in the  References and Definitions section of this
Security Policy.

CAVP Cert

Algorithm
and
Standard

A2520

AES [197]

A2522

AES [197]

A2523

AES [197]

VA

CKG [IG D.H]

Table 3 – Approved Algorithms

Mode/Method

Description / Key Size(s) / Key
Strength(s)

Use / Function

AES-KW [38F]

Key Sizes: 256

AES-ECB [38A]

Key Sizes: 256

AES-XTS1 Testing
Revision 2.0 [38E]

Key Sizes: 256

AES-ECB [38A]

Key Sizes: 256

AES-XTS1 Testing
Revision 2.0 [38E]

Key Sizes: 256

[133] Sections 4 and 6.1 Direct symmetric key
generation using unmodified DRBG output
[133] Section 6.2.2 Symmetric Keys Derived from a
Pre-existing Key
[133] Section 6.2.3 Derivation of symmetric keys from a
password
[133] Section 6.3 Symmetric Keys Produced by
Combining Multiple Keys and Other Data

Authenticated Encrypt,
Authenticated Decrypt
(Uses Auxiliary ECB)
Encrypt, Decrypt
(Auxiliary)
Encrypt, Decrypt
(Auxiliary)
Encrypt, Decrypt
(Datapath)

Encrypt, Decrypt
(Datapath)

Key Generation

A2520

A2521

HASH DRBG
[90A]

HMAC-
SHA2-256
[198]

HASH DRBG

SHA2-256

SHA2-256

Key Size: 256
MAC = 256

A2521

KDF [108]

Counter Mode
KDF SP800-108

HMAC-SHA2-256
Supported Lengths: 256
Fixed Data Order: Before Fixed
Data

Deterministic Random
Bit Generation
Security Strength = 256

Key derivation.  Data
Authentication

Key Based Key Derivation

1 The XTS algorithm implementation includes a check to ensure Key_1 ≠ Key_2. XTS may only be used in
storage applications.

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 7 of 26

Micron Technology

CAVP Cert

Algorithm
and
Standard

Mode/Method

Description / Key Size(s) / Key
Strength(s)

Use / Function

Counter Length: 8
Custom Key in Length: 0

A2520

KTS [38F]

AES-KW

Key Sizes: 256

A2520

KTS-IFC
[56Br2]

KTS-OAEP-basic

n = 20482 SHA2-256
n = 30722 SHA2-256

A2520

PBKDF [132]  Option 1a

sLen = 256
C = 300
HMAC-SHA2-256

CSP
Wrapping/Unwrapping
Key transport
methodology provides
between 112 and 128
bits of encryption
strength; Encapsulation
Only.
Password Based Key
Derivation. Keys derived
from passwords may
only be used in storage
applications.  Password
length is 32 bytes and
only five attempts are
permitted before a reset
is required.
The PBKDF iteration
count (C) is chosen to be
as high as can be
tolerated without
impacting system boot
up performance.

Signature verification

RSA SigVer
[186]

PKCS1_v1.5

n = 2048 SHA2-256
n = 3072 SHA2-256

Public Exponent Mode: Fixed
Fixed Public Exponent: 010001

SHA2-256
[180]

SHA2-256

-

Message Digest
Generation

A2521

A2522

The module does not implement any “Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of
Operation” or “Non-Approved Algorithms Not Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation” per SP800-
140B. Only “Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security
Claimed” are supported per Table 4 below.

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 8 of 26

Micron Technology

Table 4 – Non-Approved Algorithms Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security Claimed

Algorithm

Caveat
No security claimed per IG 2.4.A.

RBG

Use / Function
Generates a 64-byte personalization
string for the DRBG. Per [90A], the
personalization is entirely optional, is
not required to contain any entropy,
and may be provided by a non-
Approved RBG.

2.5  Security Function Implementation

The following table shows the Security Function Implementations that the module implements:

Table 5 - Security Function Implementation

Name

Type  Description

SF Properties

Algorithms/CAVP Cert

KTS

KTS

AES-KW  –  AES
Cert. #A2520

Key establishment methodology provides 256
bits of encryption strength

AES-KW/Cert. #A2520

KTS-IFC  KTS

KTS-IFC  -  RSA
Cert. #A2520

Key transport methodology provides between
112 and 128 bits of encryption strength

KTS-IFC/Cert. #A2520

2.6  Overall Security Design

1.  The Module provides one distinct operator role: Controller, which acts as the Cryptographic Officer

2.  The Module provides role-based authentication.

3.  The Module clears previous authentications on reset.

4.  An operator does not have access to any cryptographic services prior to assuming an authorized role.

5.  The Module allows the operator to initiate power-up self-tests by power cycling power or resetting the

Module.

6.  Power up self-tests do not require any operator action.

7.  Data outputs are inhibited during firmware loading, self-tests, zeroization, and error states.

8.  Status information does not contain CSPs or sensitive data that if misused could lead to a compromise

of the Module.

9.  There are no restrictions on which keys or SSPs are zeroized by the zeroization service, except for the

KManifestPUB_ROM.

10. The Module does not support concurrent operators.

11. The Module does not support a maintenance interface or role.

12. The Module does not support manual SSP establishment method.

13. The Module does not have any proprietary external input/output devices used for entry/output of data.

14. The Module does not output plaintext CSPs or intermediate key values.

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 9 of 26

Micron Technology

15. The Module does not provide bypass services.

16. The Module zeroizes temporary values generated and used during self-tests.

2.7  Rules of Operation

The  Module  is  embedded  within  the  Micron  7400  controller  of  the  SSD.  The  Module  shall  be  operated
according to Section 11.

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 10 of 26

Micron Technology

3  Cryptographic Module Interfaces

The Module’s ports and associated FIPS defined logical interface categories are listed in Table 5 above.

Table 6 – Ports and Interfaces

Physical Port
AESE (encryption engine)

AESD (decryption engine)

Logical Interface
Control in | Data in |
Data out | Status out
Control in | Data in |
Data out | Status out
Control in | Status out

Mbox (Mailbox)
Controller output (response to Mbox)  Data out
Disabled
External Interrupt (JTAG, AHB bypass
and inter-CPU interrupts)
Reset/Interrupt
BMG-128 (S-DMA Interface)
Power
JTAG / AHB-32 bypass
LDPC Decoder
UART

Control in
Data in | Data out
Power in
Disabled
Data In
Status out

Data that passes over port/interface
User data

User data

Service info input
Service info output
Disabled

None
Service info data (command/response)
None
Disabled
Firmware Images
Status Data

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 11 of 26

Micron Technology

4  Roles, Services and Authentication

4.1  Assumption of Roles and Related Services

The Module supports one distinct operator role, Controller (Cryptographic Officer).

Table 6 lists the operator role supported by the Module and their related services. In addition to the services
listed in Table 6, the Module also supports a Self-Test service, which is invoked by power cycling the Module.

The  Module  does  not  support  a  maintenance  role  or  bypass  capability.  The  Module  does  not  support
concurrent operators.

Table 7 – Roles, Service Commands, Input and Output

Role

Service

Any

Self-Test

Controller

SUP Authenticate

Controller

SUP Generate

Controller

TCG Authenticate

Input

N/A

Password

None

Wrapped RdsKey or
SumRdsKey, Password

Output

N/A

Response

Encrypted blob

Response

Controller

Clear TCG Authentications

None

Response

Controller

Random

Size/Location

Random Value

Controller

NVMe Allocate and associate Key

Namespace Information

Response

Controller

NVMe Deallocate and disassociate
Key

Namespace information

Response

Controller

NVMe Update Key

Namespace information

Response

Controller

Public HMAC Generation

Target input

Controller

Load Range and Key

Range and key (index)
Information

HMAC

Response

Controller

AWOR

None

Encrypted block

Controller

TCG Allocate and associate Key

Range Information

Response

Controller

TCG Deallocate and disassociate Key  Range Information

Response

Controller

TCG Update Key

Range Information

Response

Controller

TCG Set PIN

Password

Response

Controller

TCG Revert, Activate, Reactivate

Command information

Response

Controller

TCG HMAC Generation

Target HMAC

HMAC

Controller  Manifest Load

Controller

CSP Load

Controller  Write/Read

Controller

Get Status

Manifest

CSP Block

Verification status

Verification status

Read/Write Location

Read information Status

None

Status

Controller

Firmware Signature Check

Firmware block

Verification status

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 12 of 26

Micron Technology

Role

Service

Controller

Factory Auth

Input

Signature

Output

Verification status

Controller*  Device Deprovision

Deprovision ID

Controller*  Generate KeyDerivationKey

Controller*

Zeroize

*Requires additional authorization

Mode

None

Status

Status

Status

4.2  Authentication Methods

The role-based authentication methods are defined in Table 8 below.

Role

Authentication Method

Authentication Strength

Table 8 – Roles and Authentication

Controller

Signature Verification

RSA 2048/3072 has a key strength of 112/128 bits. The probability of a
successful verification from a single random attempt is at least 1/2112
which is < 1/1,000,000. This effectively eliminates the possibility of
determining the private key through exhaustive methods. Using a
conservative estimate of 1ms per verification attempt, the maximum
number of attempts which can be made in 1 minute is 60,000. This
results in a probability of at least 60,000/2112 that multiple attempts in a
given minute of time is successful, which is less than 1/100,000.

4.3  Services

All services implemented by the Module are listed in the Table 9 below. The services provided by the Module
are defined in terms of the services being exposed at the Module (logical) boundary. Each service description
also describes the operator roles involved along with the interface command associated with the service.

The SSPs modes of access shown in Table 9 are defined as:

•  G =   Generate: The Module generates or derives the SSP.
•  R =   Read: The SSP is read from the Module (e.g., the SSP is output).
•  W = Write: The SSP is updated, imported, or written to the Module.
•  E =   Execute: The Module uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation. Implicitly include

Read.

•  Z =   Zeroize: The Module zeroizes the SSP.

The service indicator for approved services is the return code from an approved security service call (CCS).

CCS = Command completion status, complies with the Approved Security Service Indicator defined in IG
2.4.C, Example Scenario #2.

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 13 of 26

Micron Technology

Table 9 – Approved Services

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

Indicator

Access
rights to
Keys
and/or
SSPs

This service is
unauthenticat
ed.

Controller

CCS

W, E

G, E

Controller

W, E;

CCS

Service

Description

Approved Security
Functions

Self-Test

Run KAT tests on all
cryptographic algorithms.

All

NA

Any

N/A

CCS

SUP Authenticate

Unwrap SUP blob using
PBKDF derived key.

SUP Generate

KTS-IFC wrap an internally
generated random.

PBKDF, AES-KW

Password;

DRBG, CKG

KTS-IFC,

AES-KW,

PBKDF

PasswordWrapKey

DrbgState;

KDeviceWrappingPub;

PasswordWrapKey;

SUP Seed

TCG Authenticate

Unwrap TCG SSP using PBKDF
derived key.

PBKDF, AES-KW, CKG

Password;

Controller

SumRDSKey;

RdsKey;

PasswordWrapKey;

AuthenticatedUseHmacKey;

EphemeralSumRdskWrapKey

Clear TCG
Authentications

Remove status of all past
authentication and their
privileges

NA

NA

Controller

N/A

CCS

Random

Returns a 256-bit random
number

DRBG

DrbgState

Controller

E, W

CCS

NVMe Allocate and
associate Key

Generate a key, wrap key and
associate key with an entity.

DRBG, AES-KW, CKG

DrbgState;

Controller

E, W;

CCS

WrapKey;

RdsKey;

SumRdsKey;

NamespaceDEK;

AuthenticatedUseHmacKey;

EphemeralSumRdskWrapKey

NamespaceDEK;

Controller

Controller

WrapKey;

AuthenticatedUseHmacKey

DrbgState;
WrapKey;
RdsKey;
SumRdsKey
NamespaceDEK;
LockingObjectDEK;
AuthenticatedUseHmacKey;

EphemeralSumRdskWrapKey

NVMe Deallocate
and disassociate
Key

NVMe Update Key

Zeroize key and disassociate
key from an entity.

AES-KW

Erase user data in a
namespace by changing the
encryption key

DRBG, AES-KW, CKG

Public HMAC
Generation

Generate an HMAC over the
prescribed content.

HMAC SHA2-256

RootPublicMacKey;

Controller

PspHmacKey

CCS

E;

G, E, Z;

G, E, Z

E;

W;

W;

G, E, Z;

E;

E

E;

G, E, R;

G, E, R;

G, R;

E;

E

Z;

E;

E

E;
E;
E;
W, E;
Z, G, R;
Z, G, R;
E;

E

E;

E

CCS

CCS

CCS

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 14 of 26

Micron Technology

Service

Description

Approved Security
Functions

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

Indicator

Access
rights to
Keys
and/or
SSPs

Load Range and Key   Load DEK into DPE for

AES-KW

TweakKey;

Controller

indicated range

LockingObjectDEK;

NamespaceDEK;

RdsKey;

SumRdsKey;

WrapKey;

EphemeralSumRdskWrapKey

AWOR

Save, restore security
operational context.

KDF, AES-KW, HMAC,
CKG

AworWrapKey;

AworHmacKey;

Controller

DrbgState;

WrapKey;

AuthenticatedUseHmacKey;

PspHmacKey;

TweakKey;

RdsKey;

SumRdsKey;

RootHmacKey;

RootKeyWrapKey;

RootPublicMacKey;

EphemeralSumRdskWrapKey

TCG Allocate and
associate Key

Generate a key, wrap key and
associate key with an entity.

DRBG,

AES-KW,

CKG

DrbgState;

WrapKey;

RdsKey;

SumRdsKey;

Controller

TCG Deallocate and
disassociate Key

Zeroize key and disassociate
key from an entity.

NA

LockingObjectDEK;

EphemeralSumRdskWrapKey
;

AuthenticatedUseHmacKey

WrapKey;

Controller

LockingObjectDEK

AuthenticatedUseHmacKey

TCG Update Key

Erase user data in a
namespace by changing the
encryption key.

DRBG, AES-KW,

DrbgState;

Controller

CKG

WrapKey;

RDSKey;

SumRDSKey;

LockingObjectDEK;

EphemeralSumRdskWrapKey
;

AuthenticatedUseHmacKey

CCS

CCS

CCS

CCS

CCS

W;

W;

W;

E;

W, E;

E;

E;

E;

E;

W, R;

W, R;

W, R;

W, R;

W, R;

W, R;

W, R;

W, R;

W, R;

W, R;

W, R

E;

E;

G, E, R;

G, E, R;

G, R;

E;

E

E;

Z, R;

E;

E;

E;

E;

E, W;

Z, G, R;

E;

E

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 15 of 26

Micron Technology

Service

Description

Approved Security
Functions

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

Indicator

Access
rights to
Keys
and/or
SSPs

Controller

W, E, Z;

CCS

TCG Set PIN

Set PIN which is used in
generating a key to wrap a
TCG credential.

PBKDF,

DRBG,

AES-KW,

CKG,

HMAC

Password;

DrbgState;

WrapKey;

PasswordWrapKey;

RDSKey;

SumRDSKey;

EphemeralSumRdskWrapKey
;

AuthenticatedUseHmacKey

RootHmacKey;

Controller

DrbgState;

WrapKey;

RdsKey;

SumRdsKey;

NameSpaceDEK;

LockingObjectDEK;

AuthenticatedUseHmacKey

AuthenticatedUseHmacKey;
DrbgState;
RootKeyWrapKey;
TweakKey;
WrapKey;
Password;
PassordWrapKey

KManifestPub_ROM
RootHmacKey;

RootKeyWrapKey;

DrbgState;

WrapKey;

AuthenticatedUseHmacKey;

TweakKey;

PspHmacKey

NamespaceDEK;
LockingObjectDEK;
TweakKey

Controller

Controller

Controller

Controller

TCG Revert,
Activate, Reactivate

Revert to FOB,
Revert to FOB with TCG
Activated.

AES-KW, HMAC, DRBG,
CKG

TCG HMAC
Generation

Generate an HMAC over the
prescribed TCG content.

HMAC

Manifest Load

RSA Verify trusted list of PKs.  RSA Verify

CSP Load

Restore persistent SSPs.

AES-KW

HMAC

DPE-AES-XTS

Write/Read

Get Status

Encryption / Decryption of
user data to / from a user
data range.

Get information about the
operational state of the
drive.

This service provides the
requisite data for the Show
module’s versioning
information requirement.

NA

NA

Controller

Firmware Signature
Check

Verify firmware image
signature before persisting.

RSA Verify

KFWCBootloaderVerify;

Controller

KFWModuleVerify;

KFWControllerVerify

E;

E;

G, E, Z;

G, W;

G, W;

E;

E

E;

E;

E;

Z;

Z;

Z, G;

Z, G;

E

E;
R;
E;
R;
E, R;
G, E;
G, E

E

E;

E;

W;

W;

W;

W;

W

E;

E;

E

NA

E;

E;

E

CCS

CCS

CCS

CCS

CCS

CCS

CCS

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 16 of 26

Micron Technology

Keys and/or SSPs

Roles

Service

Description

Approved Security
Functions

Factory Auth

Authentication for factory-
restricted services.

RSA Verify, DRBG

Device Deprovision  Deprovision the device,

NA

KAuthPub;
KVSAuthPub;
DrbgState
All CSPs

zeroize all SSPs.

Generate
KeyDerivationKey

Generate a new
KeyDerivationKey.

DRBG, CKG

DrbgState;

Controller

Controller

Controller

Z

Access
rights to
Keys
and/or
SSPs

E;

E;

E, W

G, E;

G, E;

W, E;

G, E;

G, E;

G;

G;

G;

G, E;

G, E;

G;

G

Z

Indicator

CSS

CCS

CCS

CCS

KeyDerivationKey;

Entropy Input;

RootHmacKey;

RootKeyWrapKey;

RootPublicMacKey;

AworHmacKey;

AworWrapKey;

WrapKey;

AuthenticatedUseHmacKey;

PspHmacKey;

TweakKey

All CSPs

Controller

Zeroize

Destroys all keys. Must be
performed under the direct
control of the operator.

Factory zeroization
process

5  Software/Firmware Security

The Module is composed of the following firmware components:
•  Security Subsystem Operational: Runtime SCSS V2.3
•  Security Subsystem Bootloader: Bootloader V1.0
•  Function ROM v2.0
•  Boot ROM v1.0

The pre-operational firmware integrity tests are performed using RSA SHA2-256 signature verification with
a 2048-bit or 3072-bit key. The bootloader and operational runtime firmware are loadable components
and are protected with the authentication technique, RSA SHA2-256 signature verification with a 2048-bit
or 3072-bit key. Firmware candidates are isolated from load until they have successfully passed the
Firmware Load Test. Firmware load and integrity checks are defined in the self-test section of this security
policy.

The ROM components are implemented in Non-Reconfigurable-Memory and are not subject to firmware
integrity test per FIPS 140-3 IG 5.A.

The operator can initiate the firmware integrity test on demand by power cycling/resetting the SSD.

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 17 of 26

Micron Technology

6  Operational Environment

The Module has a limited operational environment under the FIPS 140-3 definitions. The tested operational
environment is listed in Table 2.

The  Module  includes  a  firmware  verification  and  load  service  to  support  necessary  updates.  Firmware
versions validated through the FIPS 140-3 CMVP will be explicitly identified on a validation certificate. Any
firmware not identified in this Security Policy does not constitute the Module defined by this Security Policy
or covered by this validation.

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 18 of 26

Micron Technology

7  Physical Security

The Module is a Single Chip Hardware sub-chip cryptographic subsystem, and the embodiment is a single
chip.  The  chip  is  encapsulated  in  a  standard  IC  package.  The  IC  packaging  itself  provides  the  necessary
opacity and tamper evidence required for Level 2 conformance.

Table 10 – Physical Security Inspection Guidelines

Physical Security
Mechanism

IC packaging

Recommended Frequency of
Inspection/Test

On  initial  receipt  of  the  device
and periodically afterwards

Inspection/Test Guidance Details

Inspect for evidence of prying or
removal of the chip packaging. See
Examples below.
If tampering is suspected, then the
device containing the IC should be
removed from service and the site
administrator should be contacted.

Figure 3 – Tamper Evidence Example

8  Non-Invasive Security

The Module does not implement any mitigation method against non-invasive attack.

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 19 of 26

Micron Technology

9  Sensitive Security Parameter (SSP) Management

The SSPs access methods are described in below.

The SSPs management methods as shown in Table 11 below are defined as:

•  G1 = Externally generated and installed during manufacturing
•  G2 = Internally generated using the DRBG
•  G3 = Derived using SP 800-108 compliant KBKDF
•  G4 = Derived using SP 800-132 compliant PBKDF2
•  S1 = Only stored in volatile memory (RAM).
•  S2 = Stored in e-Fuse in plaintext
•  S3 = Stored in register in plaintext
•  S4 = Stored in ROM in plaintext
•  E1 = Input in plaintext
•  E2 = Input signed and verified using KManifestPub_ROM
•  E3 = Input using SP800-38F AES key Transport
•  O1 = Output in plaintext public key
•  O2 = Output using SP800-38F Key Transport (specify AES key wrap key)
•  O3 = Output using KTS-IFC [56Br2]
•  Z1 = Zeroized implicitly after use, by Module power cycle, and reset
•  Z2 = Zeroized explicitly by the “zeroize” service by overwriting with a fixed pattern

9.1  Sensitive Security Parameters (SSP)

All CSPs and PSPs used by the Module are described in this section. All usage of these SSPs by the Module
is described in the services detailed in Section 4.3. The numbers and letters within square brackets reference
standards which are defined in the References and Definitions section of this Security Policy.

Key/SSP/Name/T
ype

Strength

AuthenticatedUse
HmacKey

256

AworWrapKey

256

AworHmacKey

256

DrbgState

256

Security
Function
and Cert.
Number
HMAC
#A2521

Gene-
ration

G2

G3 from
KeyDerivat
ionKey
G3 from
KeyDerivat
ionKey
G2

KTS
#A2520

HMAC
#A2521

HASH
DRBG
#A2520

Table 11 – SSPs

Import /Export

Establish
ment

Storage  Zeroiza-

tion

Use & Related
keys

E3 / O2 by
RootKeyWrapKey
or AworWrapKey
N/A

N/A

S1

Z1, Z2

N/A

S1

Z1, Z2

N/A

N/A

S1

Z1, Z2

E3 / O2 by
RootKeyWrapKey
or AworWrapKey

N/A

S1

Z1, Z2

Integrity
verification of
TCG table data
Key encryption

Integrity
verification of
TCG context data
HASH_DRBG
internal state (V
and C are each 55
bytes)

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 20 of 26

Key wrap of
SumRdsKey
128 bytes of
Entropy and 64
bytes of Nonce
Master key used
to derive other
keys
Data encryption

Used with
PBKDF2 to derive
the
PasswordWrapKe
y, Password is 32
bytes in length
Key wrap of
RdsKey or
SumRdsKey
Integrity
verification of
public TCG
content
Key wrap of
LockingObjectDE
K and
NameSpaceDEK
Integrity checking

Security
Function
and Cert.
Number
KTS
#A2520
HASH
DRBG
#A2520
KDF
#A2521

Key/SSP/Name/T
ype

Strength

EphemeralSumRd
skWrapKey
Entropy Input

256

256

KeyDerivationKey  256

LockingObjectDEK  256

NamespaceDEK

256

Password

256

Micron Technology

Gene-
ration

Import /Export

Establish
ment

Storage  Zeroiza-

tion

Use & Related
keys

G2

G1

E3 / O2 by
AworWrapKey
E1

N/A

N/A

S1

S1

Z1, Z2

Z1

G2

N/A

N/A

S2

Z2

AES
#A2523

AES
#A2523

G2

G2

PBKDF
#A2520

N/A

E3 / O2 by RdsKey,
SumRdsKey or
WrapKey
E3 / O2 by RdsKey,
SumRdsKey or
WrapKey
E1

N/A

S1, S3

Z1, Z2

N/A

S1, S3

Z1, Z2

Data encryption

N/A

S1

Z1

PasswordWrapKe
y

256

KTS
#A2520

G4

N/A

N/A

S1

Z1

PspHmacKey

256

RdsKey

256

RootHmacKey

256

RootKeyWrapKey  256

RootPublicMacKe
y

256

HMAC
#A2521

G2

KTS
#A2520

G2

E3 / O2 by
RootKeyWrapKey
or AworWrapKey

E3 / O2 by
PasswordWrapKey
or AworWrapKey

N/A

S1

Z1, Z2

N/A

S1

Z1, Z2

N/A

S1

Z1, Z2

HMAC
#A2521

KTS
#A2520

HMAC
#A2521

G3 from
KeyDerivat
ionKey
G3 from
KeyDerivat
ionKey
G3 from
KeyDerivat
ionKey

E3 / O2 by
AworWrapKey

E3 / O2 by
AworWrapKey

E3 / O2 by
AworWrapKey

SumRdsKey

256

KTS

G2

#A2520

E3 / O2 by
AworWrapKey,
EphemeralSumRds
kWrapKey, or by
PasswordWrapKey

N/A

S1

Z1, Z2

Key wrapping

N/A

S1

Z1, Z2

N/A

S1

Z1, Z2

Integrity
verification of
external TCG
content

Key wrap of
LockingObjectDE
K and
NameSpaceDEK

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 21 of 26

Key/SSP/Name/T
ype

Strength

SUP Seed

256

TweakKey

256

WrapKey

256

KAuthPub

KDeviceWrappingPub

KFWCBootloaderVerify

(Not an SSP)

KFWControllerVerify

112

128

112

128

112

128

112

128

KFWModuleVerify
(Not an SSP)

112

128

KManifestPub_ROM
(Not an SSP)

112

128

KVSAuthPub

112

128

Security
Function
and Cert.
Number
PBKDF
#A2520

AES
#A2523

KTS
#A2520

RSA
SigVer
(FIPS186-
4)
#A2521
KTS-IFC
#A2520

RSA
SigVer
(FIPS186-
4)
#A2521

RSA
SigVer
(FIPS186-
4)
#A2521
RSA
SigVer
(FIPS186-
4)
#A2521
RSA
SigVer
(FIPS186-
4)
#A2521

RSA
SigVer
(FIPS186-
4)
#A2521

Micron Technology

Gene-
ration

Import /Export

Establish
ment

Storage  Zeroiza-

tion

Use & Related
keys

G2

G2

G2

O3 by
KDeviceWrappingPub

E3 / O2 by
RootKeyWrapKey
or AworWrapKey
E3 / O2 by
RootKeyWrapKey
or AworWrapKey

N/A

S1

Z1

N/A

S1, S3   Z1, Z2

N/A

S1

Z1, Z2

N/A

E2 / O1

N/A

S1

Z1

N/A

E2 / O1

N/A

S1

Z1

N/A

E2

N/A

S1

Z1

N/A

E2

N/A

S1

Z1

N/A

E2

N/A

S1

Z1

N/A

N/A. Pre-installed.  N/A

S4

N/A

E2 / O1

N/A

S1

N/A.
Used
solely for
self-tests
and can
be
revoked
Z1

Random value
used in password
creation
Data encryption

Key wrap of
LockingObjectDE
K and
NameSpaceDEK
RSA 2048/3072
Public Key for
Factory-restricted
services signature
verification
RSA 2048/3072
Public Key for
SUP Generate
RSA 2048/3072
Public Key for
Bootloader
firmware
signature
verification
RSA 2048/3072
Public Key for
Controller
signature
verification
RSA 2048/3072
Public Key for
runtime firmware
signature
verification
RSA 2048/3072
Public Key for
manifest
signature
verification

RSA 2048/3072
Public Key for
Factory-restricted
signature
verification

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 22 of 26

Micron Technology

9.2  DRBG Randomness Source

The DRBG Randomness source (i.e., entropy) is loaded at manufacturing. Per IG 9.3.A, Example 2A, there is
no assurance of the minimum strength of generated SSPs. The DRBG mechanism is SHA2-256, which has a
security strength of 256-bits (per SP800-57, Part 1, Revision 5). The HASH DRBG is seeded with 128 bytes of
entropy and 64 bytes of nonce material during manufacturing and is assumed to initialize the HASH DRBG
to the full 256-bits security strength.

10   Self-Tests

The Module performs self-tests to ensure the proper operation of the Module. Per FIPS 140-3 these are
categorized as either pre-operational self-tests or conditional self-tests.

Pre-operational  and  conditional  self-tests  are  available  on  demand  by  resetting  or  power  cycling  the
Module.

The self-tests error states and status indicator are described in Table 12 below:

Table 12 – Error States and Indicators

Description

Error
state

ES1

The Function ROM fails a KAT

ES2

The Module fails the firmware load test or
the Firmware Integrity test

ES3

The Module fails conditional KAT self-test.

Non-operational state. No services beside
status services are allowed

Indicator

Triggered by cryptographic KAT failure. The Module enters
the ES1 error state and outputs A Cryptographic Self-Test
Failure status in response to any service request

The Module enters the ES2 error state and outputs a
verification failure status in response to the firmware load
test or the firmware integrity test

The Module enters the ES3 error state and will output a
self-test failure status to any service request

The Module performs the following pre-operational self-tests:

Table 13 – Pre-Operational Self-Test

Security Function

Method

Description

Error state

Bootloader Firmware
(Bootloader V1.0)
integrity test

SEE Firmware
(Runtime SCSS V2.3)
integrity test

RSA SHA2-256
Signature Verification

An RSA 2048 or 3072-bit Signature Verification is
executed on the whole Bootloader copied into
the Module

RSA SHA2-256
Signature Verification

An RSA 2048 or 3072-bit Signature Verification is
executed on the whole Bootloader copied into
the Module

ES2

ES2

The Module performs the following conditional self-tests:

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 23 of 26

Micron Technology

Table 14 – Conditional Self-Tests

Security Function  Method

Description

Error state

ES1

ES1

ES3

ES3

ES3

ES3

ES3

ROM HMAC

ROM RSA

HMAC_
SHA2-256

SHS/RSA

HMAC SHA2-256 KAT. This test occurs before the Pre-
Operational firmware integrity test.

2048 RSA PKCS#1_v1.5 Verification KAT with SHA2-256 KAT,
which satisfies the self-test requirements for KTS-IFC per IG D.G;
the Module only supports the public key operations for RSA
Signature Verification and KTS-IFC Encapsulation. This test
occurs before the Pre-Operational firmware integrity test.

AES – KW (Key
Wrap)

AES – KW (Key
Unwrap)

KAT

KAT

(Auxiliary) AES-256 KW encryption KAT – Inclusive of AES ECB
testing with 256-bit key per IG 10.3.B.

(Auxiliary) AES-256 KW decryption KAT – Inclusive of AES ECB
testing with 256-bit key per IG 10.3.B.

AES XTS – AUX and
DPE Encryption

Comparative  256-bit AES-XTS encryption Comparative Answer Test with the
AES-AUX and DPE AES-XTS implementations.

AES XTS – AUX and
DPE Decryption

Comparative  256-bit AES-XTS decryption Comparative Answer Test with the
AES-AUX and DPE AES-XTS implementations.

DRBG

PBKDF

KBKDF

KAT

KAT

KAT

BootLoader
Firmware Load test

SEE Firmware Load
test

RSA
PKCS#1_v1.5
SHA2-256

RSA
PKCS#1_v1.5
SHA2-256

HASH_DRBG (SHA2-256) instantiation, generate, and reseed
KATs performed before the first random data generation.

Option 1a using HMAC SHA2-256. Password size is 32 Bytes.  Key
generated is 256 bits.

ES3

Known answer test. Inclusive of HMAC-SHA2-256 KAT. Key size
requested is 256 bits.

A 2048 or 3072-bit RSA Signature Verification is executed on the
bootloader copied into the Module.

ES3

ES2

A 2048 or 3072-bit RSA Signature Verification is executed on the
SEE firmware copied into the Module.

ES2

DPE self-tests are initiated when functionality is requested. All other self-tests are initiated automatically
when the module boots. The self-tests cannot be interrupted and will run to completion.

11  Life-Cycle Assurance

This section documents the operational behavior of the device.

11.1  Security Initialization

The device is shipped from the factory in the Approved mode of operation and no further initialization is
required to operate in the Approved mode. Going further, it is not possible to configure the module in
such a way that it would operate in a non-compliant state or non-Approved mode. On receipt of the

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 24 of 26

Micron Technology

Module, examine the product to ensure it has not been tampered with during shipping according to the
procedures outlined in Section 7.

12  Mitigation of Other Attacks

The Module does not implement any mitigation method against other attacks.

13  References and Definitions

The following standards are referred to in this Security Policy.

Table 15 – References

Abbreviation  Full Specification Name

[FIPS140-3]

Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules, March 22, 2019

[ISO19790]

International Standard, ISO/IEC 19790, Information technology — Security techniques — Test
requirements for cryptographic modules, Third edition, March 2017

[ISO24759]

International Standard, ISO/IEC 24759, Information technology — Security techniques — Test
requirements for cryptographic modules, Second and Corrected version, 15 December 2015

[IG]

[108]

[131A]

[132]

[133]

[186]

[197]

[198]

[180]

[38A]

Implementation  Guidance  for  FIPS  PUB  140-3  and  the  Cryptographic  Module  Validation
Program, May 16, 2022

NIST Special Publication 800-108, Recommendation for Key Derivation Using Pseudorandom
Functions (Revised), October 2009

Transitions: Recommendation for Transitioning the Use of Cryptographic Algorithms and Key
Lengths, Revision 2, March 2019

NIST Special Publication 800-132, Recommendation for Password-Based Key Derivation, Part
1: Storage Applications, December 2010

NIST  Special  Publication  800-133,  Recommendation  for  Cryptographic  Key  Generation,
Revision 2, June 2020

National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology,  Digital  Signature  Standard  (DSS),  Federal
Information Processing Standards Publication 186-4, July 2013.

National Institute of Standards and Technology, Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), Federal
Information Processing Standards Publication 197, November 26, 2001

National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology,  The  Keyed-Hash  Message  Authentication
Code (HMAC), Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 198-1, July, 2008

National Institute of Standards and Technology, Secure Hash Standard, Federal Information
Processing Standards Publication 180-4, August, 2015

National Institute of Standards and Technology, Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of
Operation, Methods and Techniques, Special Publication 800-38A, December 2001

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 25 of 26

Micron Technology

Abbreviation  Full Specification Name

[38B]

[38E]

[38F]

[56Br2]

[90A]

National Institute of Standards and Technology, Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of
Operation: The CMAC Mode for Authentication, Special Publication 800-38B, May 2005

National Institute of Standards and Technology, Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of
Operation: The XTS-AES Mode for Confidentiality on Storage Devices, Special Publication 800-
38E, January 2010

National Institute of Standards and Technology, Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of
Operation: Methods for Key Wrapping, Special Publication 800-38F, December 2012

NIST  Special  Publication  800-56B  Revision  2,  Recommendation  for  Pair-Wise  Key
Establishment Schemes Using Finite Field Cryptography, March 2019

National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology,  Recommendation  for  Random  Number
Generation Using Deterministic Random Bit Generators, Special Publication 800-90A, Revision
1, June 2015.

[90B]

National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology,  Recommendation  for  the  Entropy  Sources
Used for Random Bit Generation, Special Publication 800-90B, January 2018.

[ACS-3]

ACS-3 Reporting Security Compliance December 1,2009

[TCG-SSC-
Opal]

TCG Storage Security Subsystem Class: Opal, Specification

[TCG-SACS]

TCG Storage Architecture Core Specification

[TCG-SIIS]

TCG Storage Interface Interactions Specification

Acronym

Definition

Table 16– Acronyms and Definitions

KAT

SSP

AK

DEK

LBA

MSID

PSID

SED

SID

TCG

Known Answer Test

Sensitive Security Parameter

Authentication key

Data Encryption Key

Logical Block Address

Manufacturing SID.  Public value used as part of the default PIN

Physical SID, a public unique value for each drive

Self-Encrypting Drive

Security ID, PIN for Drive Owner CO Role - TCG OPAL

Trusted Computing Group

Copyright Micron Technology, Inc., 2024
Micron Technology, Inc. Public Material – May be reproduced only in its original entirety (without revision).

Version 1.3

Page 26 of 26

