Communication Devices, Inc.

Port Authority Series

Hardware Version:
PA111-SA CDI 01-03-0912I
PA111-RM CDI 01-03-0912I
PA121-RM CDI 01-03-0912I
PA155-RM CDI 01-03-0912I
PA199-RM CDI 01-03-0912I

Firmware Version:
1.0.0

FIPS 140-3 Non-Proprietary Security Policy

This document is copyright © Communication Devices, Inc. 2024

Document Version: 1.2

Date: 9/6/2024

1

Table of Contents

1  General Information ..................................................................................................... 4

1.1  Overview ............................................................................................................... 4

1.2

Security Levels ....................................................................................................... 4

2  Cryptographic Module Specification ............................................................................ 4

2.1  Description ............................................................................................................ 4

2.2  Tested and Vendor Affirmed Module Version and Identification ...................... 11

2.3  Excluded Components ......................................................................................... 12

2.4  Modes of Operation ............................................................................................ 12

2.5  Algorithms ........................................................................................................... 12

2.6

Security Function Implementation...................................................................... 15

2.7  Algorithm Specific Information ........................................................................... 15

2.8  RNG and Entropy ................................................................................................. 16

2.9  Key Generation .................................................................................................... 16

2.10  Key Establishment ............................................................................................... 16

2.11  Industry Protocols ............................................................................................... 17

2.12  Design and Rules ................................................................................................. 17

2.13  Initialization ......................................................................................................... 17

3  Cryptographic Module Interfaces ............................................................................... 18

3.1  Ports and Interfaces ............................................................................................ 18

3.2  Trusted Channel Specification ............................................................................. 19

3.3  Control Interface Not Inhibited ........................................................................... 19

4  Roles, Services and Authentication ............................................................................ 19

4.1  Authentication Methods ..................................................................................... 19

4.2  Roles .................................................................................................................... 21

4.3  Approved Services ............................................................................................... 22

4.4  Non-Approved Services ....................................................................................... 25

4.5  External Software/Firmware Loaded .................................................................. 25

4.6  Bypass Actions and Status ................................................................................... 25

4.7  Cryptographic Output Actions and Status .......................................................... 26

5  Software/Firmware Security ...................................................................................... 26

2

5.1

Integrity Techniques ............................................................................................ 26

5.2

Initiate on Demand.............................................................................................. 26

6  Operational Environment ........................................................................................... 26

6.1  Operational Environment Type and Requirements ............................................ 26

6.2  Configuration Settings and Restrictions .............................................................. 26

7  Physical Security ......................................................................................................... 26

7.1  Mechanisms and Actions Required ..................................................................... 26

7.2

Factory Placed Tamper Seals ............................................................................... 28

8  Non-Invasive Security ................................................................................................. 29

9  Sensitive Security Parameters Management ............................................................. 29

9.1

Storage Areas ...................................................................................................... 29

9.2

SSP Input-Output Methods ................................................................................. 29

9.3

SSP Zeroization Methods .................................................................................... 30

9.4

SSPs...................................................................................................................... 31

10  Self-Tests ..................................................................................................................... 35

10.1  Pre-Operational Self-Tests .................................................................................. 35

10.2  Conditional Self-Tests .......................................................................................... 35

10.3  Periodic Self-Tests ............................................................................................... 38

10.4  Error States .......................................................................................................... 38

11  Life-Cycle Assurance ................................................................................................... 38

11.1  Installation, Initialization, and Startup Procedures............................................. 38

11.2  Administrator Guidance ...................................................................................... 38

11.3  Non-Administrator Guidance .............................................................................. 39

11.4  Maintenance Requirements ................................................................................ 39

11.5  End of Life ............................................................................................................ 39

12  Mitigation of Other Attacks ........................................................................................ 39

13  Acronyms .................................................................................................................... 39

3

1  General Information

1.1  Overview

This document sets forth to describe the security rules under which the Port Authority  Series
cryptographic  module  (the  “module”)  will  operate,  using  the  terminology  contained  in  the
is  available  at
Federal
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.140-3.pdf on the NIST website. The format of
this document follows the requirements specified in NIST SP 800-140Br1.

Information  Processing  Standards  Publication  140-3,  which

This  non-proprietary  security  policy  may  be  reproduced  or  distributed  in  its  entirety,  without
revision and with copyright notices.

1.2  Security Levels

ISO/IEC 24759 Section 6

FIPS 140-3 Section Title

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12

General
Cryptographic module specification
Cryptographic module interfaces
Roles, services and authentication
Software/Firmware security
Operational Environment
Physical security
Non-invasive security
Sensitive security parameter management
Self-tests
Life-cycle assurance
Mitigation of other attacks

Table 1: Security Levels

Overall security level 2.

2  Cryptographic Module Specification

2.1  Description

Purpose and Use:

Security
Level
2
2
2
2
2
N/A
2
N/A
2
2
2
N/A

Out of Band Management, or OBM, refers to products that permit secured technician access to
"management  elements"  (e.g.  Firewalls,  Routers,  Bridges,  SONET,  Switches,  Servers,  etc.)  via
dial  up  telephone  lines,  isolated  cellular  networks  and  other  communication  channels  not  in
bandwidth  of  the  primary  network.  As  in-band,  or  part  of  the  primary  network,  control

4

channels both rely on connectivity in the primary network, they can become useless if there is a
failure in primary network. In-band control channels are also subject to interception and other
compromised  conditions  that  the  primary  network  could  be  experiencing.  When  the  primary
network  goes  down  or  is  severely  disrupted,  control  traffic  has  no  way  to  get  between  the
managed elements and the management workstations. Quite often when a managed element
goes down, it loses its network connection, which renders in-band management useless. This is
where the Port Authority cryptographic module always works flawlessly for OBM. To augment
the Port Authority usefulness, access via local networks is available.

The  module  is  designed  primarily  to  enable  remote  access  to  a  device’s  console  port  and
provide  the  capability  to  remotely  power  the  device  on  or  off.  The  module  can  address  the
limitations  of  network-dependent  remote  authentication,  which  can  fail  if  the  network  is  not
operational.  The  module  stores  its  own  database  of  user  rights  on  board  or  establish  a
cryptographic  Chain-of-Trust,  allowing  it  to  operate  even  in  situations  where  the  primary
network is inaccessible.

The module supports:

•  Dialup speed up to 115.2 Kbps via an internal V.92 modem
•  Cellular speed up to 1Mbps via an internal cellular modem
•  Network link speed at 1G or 100M
•  Power cycling of managed devices via Power Control Module ports (PCM ports)
•  Access to managed device’s physical console ports via Host ports

The module utilizes TLSv1.3 with AES128-GCM-SHA256 or AES256-GCM-SHA384 cipher suites to
safeguard both User-Module and Crypto-Officer-Module connections. For instance, an operator
can establish a secure TLS connection to another module located at a remote site, enabling the
operator to securely manage devices at that remote site through TLS connection.

Module Type: Hardware

Module Embodiment: Multi-chip standalone

Module Characteristics: None

Cryptographic Boundary:

The enclosure defines the cryptographic boundary of the module. The cryptographic boundary
for the Port Authority consists of several components. The Port Authority consists of a modem,
cellular  modem,  a  Power  Control  port,  a  Network  port,  RJ45  or  USB  Host  ports,  and  I/O
Modules. The firmware consists of component parts such as the Encryption Module, the User
Authentication Module, the Databases, and the interface buffers. The block diagram is depicted
in figures below:

5

Figure 1: Block Diagram Depicting the Cryptographic Boundary

Figure 2: PA111-SA and PA111-RM Hardware Diagram

6

Figure 3: PA121 Hardware Diagram

7

Figure 4: PA155 Hardware Diagram

8

Figure 5: PA199 Hardware Diagram

9

Figure 6: PA111-SA

Figure 7: PA111-RM

Figure 8: PA121-RM

10

Figure 9: PA155-RM

Figure 10: PA199-RM

2.2  Tested and Vendor Affirmed Module Version and Identification

The module operates in a limited operational environment. The module has been tested on the
following operating environments:

Tested Module Identification - Hardware:

Model/Part
Number
PA111-SA

CDI 01-03-0912l

Version
1.0.0

Hardware Version  Firmware

Processor

Features

PA111-RM

CDI 01-03-0912l

1.0.0

PA121-RM

CDI 01-03-0912l

1.0.0

PA155-RM

CDI 01-03-0912l

1.0.0

PA199-RM

CDI 01-03-0912l

1.0.0

Table 2: Tested Module Identification - Hardware

i.MX6 Ultralite (NXP,
IMX6, ARM32)
i.MX6 Ultralite (NXP,
IMX6, ARM32)
i.MX6 Ultralite (NXP,
IMX6, ARM32)
i.MX6 Ultralite (NXP,
IMX6, ARM32)

i.MX6 Ultralite (NXP,
IMX6, ARM32)

N/A

N/A

3 expansion boards
(20 serial host ports)
1 expansion board (4
serial host ports and
4 PCM ports)
2 expansion boards
(8 serial host ports
and 8 PCM ports)

11

2.3  Excluded Components

There are no excluded components for this cryptographic module.

2.4  Modes of Operation

Modes List and Description:

Name
Approved mode

Description
The module only
supports the approved
mode of operation

Table 3: Modes of Operation

Type
Approved

Status Indicator
SEC LED on

When  the  module  starts  up  successfully,  after  passing  all  the  pre-operational  self-tests,  the
module  uses  the  approved  mode  and  all  communication  is  based  on  authenticated  and
encrypted  access.  The  device  authenticates  itself  via  a  certificate  issued  by  a  Certificate
Authority (CA), allowing clients, possibly other Port Authorities, to verify the authentication of
the device.

Operators can be authenticated by credential or via being issued a certificate with permissions
embedded  within.  Certificates  are  verified  by  checking  the  presented  certificate  against
securely  stored  Certification  Authority  (CA)  Certificates.  Each  of  the  authentication  methods
results in the issuance of a session token that gives access to a REST API that controls all public
functions of the device. Login, token issuance and finally API usage are all secured by TLSv1.3.

More  detail  can  be  found  in  section  11.1  and  11.2  Startup  Procedures  and  Administrator
Guidance.

Mode changes instructions and status indicators

This  is  not  applicable  to  this  module  which  implements  only  one  mode  of  operation,  the
approved mode of operation.

Degraded Mode Description

The module does not implement degraded operation.

2.5  Algorithms

The  table  below  lists  the  approved  security  functions  (or  cryptographic  algorithms)  of  the
module,  including  specific  key  lengths  employed  for  approved  services,  and  implemented
modes or methods of operation of the algorithms.

CAVP
Cert
A3214

Algorithm and
Standard
SHA-3 [FIPS 202]

Mode/Method

SHA3-256

Description / Key Size(s)
/ Key Strength(s)

Use / Function

Conditioning

12

CAVP
Cert

Algorithm and
Standard

Mode/Method

Description / Key Size(s)
/ Key Strength(s)

Use / Function

A4440

AES [SP 800-38A]

ECB1

A4440

AES [SP 800-38D]

GCM

A4440  DRBG [SP 800-90A]

HMAC DRBG

A4440

ECDSA [FIPS 186-4]

KeyGen

A4440

ECDSA [FIPS 186-4]

KeyVer

A4440

ECDSA [FIPS 186-4]

SigGen

A4440

ECDSA [FIPS 186-4]

SigVer

E100

ESV [SP 800-90B]

CPU Jitter Source

A4440  HMAC [FIPS 198-1]

HMAC2

A4440

KAS [SP 800-56Arev3]

A4440

KAS-ECC-SSC [SP 800-
56Arev3]

KAS-ECC-SSC [SP
800-56Arev3]/A4440
TLS 1.3 KDF/A4440
Ephemeral Unified

A4440

SHS [FIPS 180-4]

A4440

TLS 1.3 KDF [RFC
8446] CVL

SHA-13, SHA2-256,
SHA2-384
HMAC-SHA2-256,
HMAC-SHA2-384

128 and 256-bit keys
with 128 and 256-bit key
strengths
128 and 256-bit keys
with 128 and 256-bit key
strengths
SHA2-256 with 128-bit
key strength

P-256 with 128-bit key
strength
P-256 with 128-bit key
strength
P-256/SHA2-256 with
128-bit key strength
P-256/SHA2-256 with
128-bit key strength
CDI CPU Time Jitter, 8-bit
samples

SHA-1 / 128 – 1024-bit
keys with 112-bit key
strength,
SHA2-256 / 256 – 512-bit
keys with 128-bit key
strength,
SHA2-384 / 256 – 512-bit
keys with 192-bit key
strength
P-256 with 128-bit key
strength

P-256 with 128-bit key
strength

function
Encrypt/Decrypt

Encrypt/Decrypt

Deterministic
Random Bit
Generation
Asymmetric Key
Generation
Asymmetric Key
Verification
Signature
Generation
Signature
Verification
Non-Deterministic
Random Bit
Generation
Message
Authentication

TLS key
agreement

Shared Secret
Computation for
Key Agreement
Message Digest

Key Derivation
Function
No parts of these

1 AES-ECB is CAVP tested but not used by the module. This algorithm can only be executed when running

a self-test

2 HMAC-SHA-1 is CAVP tested but not used by the module.
3 SHA-1 is CAVP tested but not used by the module.

13

CAVP
Cert

Algorithm and
Standard

Mode/Method

Description / Key Size(s)
/ Key Strength(s)

Use / Function

protocols, other
than the approved
cryptographic
algorithms and the
KDFs, have been
tested by the CAVP
and CMVP.

Table 4: Approved Algorithms

No  parts  of  the  TLS  1.3  protocol,  other  than  the  approved  cryptographic  algorithms  and  the
KDF, have been tested by the CAVP and CMVP.

Vendor-Affirmed Algorithms

The table below lists the vendor affirmed algorithms that are allowed in the approved mode of
operation.

Name
CKG

Properties

Reference
IG.D.H

Implementation
Cryptographic  key  generation  per  SP  800-
133rev2 and IG D.I
-  Generation  of  asymmetric  keys

for
signature  generation  per  [133]  section
5.1.

-

-  Generation  of  asymmetric  keys  for  key
establishment per [133] section 5.2.
Symmetric  key  derivation  for  industry
standard protocols from a key agreement
shared secret per [133] section 6.2.1.

Table 5: Vendor-Affirmed Algorithms

Non-Approved, Allowed Algorithms

The  module  does  not  implement  any  non-approved  security  functions  that  are  allowed  in
approved services.

Non-Approved, Allowed with No Security Claimed

The  module  implements  the  SNMPv3  protocol  which  is  not  conformed  to  RFC  2574  which
mandates  the  use  of  the  HMAC-SHA-96  authentication  protocol  and  CBC-DES  symmetric
encryption  protocol.  The  module  SNMPv3  protocol  uses  the  HMAC-SHA2-256  and  AES-CFB8
instead. Data transmits over the SNMP protocol only contains network metrics data that is non-
sensitive and is considered plaintext.

Name
AES-CFB8

SNMP KDF

Caveat
Network metrics output over SNMPv3 protocol is obfuscated
and considered plaintext
Key localization function uses a SHA2-256 hash function not  SNMPv3 key derivation

Use and Function
SNMPv3 privacy protocol

14

the SHA-1 specified in SP 800-135r1

Table 6: Non-Approved Allowed in the Approved Mode of Operation with No Security Claimed

Non-Approved, Not Allowed Algorithms

The module does not  implement any non-approved security functions that  are not allowed in
approved services.

2.6  Security Function Implementation

Name
KAS-ECC

Type
KAS

Description
Uses the KAS-ECC-SSC shared
secret computation which is
then fed into the module's TLS
1.3 KDF to derive keys for the
TLS 1.3 protocol

TLS-KTS

KTS

PSP transmitted as TLS payload

Algorithms
KAS-ECC-SSC SP
800-
56Ar3/A4440
TLS v1.3
KDF/A4440

AES-GCM/A4440

Properties
IG D.F scenario 2,
path (2), no key
confirmation, key
derivation per IG
2.4.B, resolution (7).
P-256 curve providing
128 bits of encryption
strength
SP 800-38D and SP
800-38F. KTS (key
wrapping and
unwrapping), per IG
D.G., providing 128
bits of encryption
strength

Table 7: Security Function Implementation (SFI)

2.7  Algorithm Specific Information

AES-GCM IV Generation

The  module  implements  the  TLS  protocol  version  1.3  defined  in  RFC  8446.  The  module’s  TLS
implementation only uses AES-GCM cipher suites, and the IV is generated and only used within
the  TLS  implementation  within  the  cryptographic  boundary  of  the  module.  The  GCM  IV
generation complies with IG C.H under scenario 5.

When the IV exhausts the maximum value of 264 – 1, the module will establish a new encryption
key. The output (key, IV) pair collision probability is less than 2-32.

In the event the module’s power is lost and restored, the module will establish a new key for
use with the AES-GCM encryption/decryption.

15

2.8  RNG and Entropy

Name

Type

CDI CPU
Time Jitter

Non-Physical

Table 8: Entropy Sources

Entropy Information:

Operating
Environment
Linux 4.14,
i.MX6 Ultralite
(NXP, IMX6,
ARM32)

Sample Size

8 bits

Entropy per
Sample
1

Conditioning
Component
SHA3-256 (A3214)

The  module  provides  the  CDI  CPU  Time  Jitter  for  generation  of  random  numbers  with  a
validated SHA3-256 conditioning component (cert. #A3214). The entropy source has undergone
the  Entropy  Server  Validation  program,  obtaining  the  following  cert.  #E100.  For  more
information,  the  following  link  can  be  consulted:  https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-
module-validation-program/entropy-validations/certificate/100.

DRBG Information

Besides the Entropy Source, the module offers a SP 800-90A compliant HMAC DRBG mechanism
with  an  HMAC  SHA2-256  for  creation  of  key  components  of  asymmetric  keys,  and  random
numbers.  The  DRBG  is  instantiated  with  128  bits  of  encryption  strength.  440  bits  of  entropy
input is used to seed the DRBG.

2.9   Key Generation

For generation of ECDSA key pairs, the module implements approved key generation services
compliant with [FIPS 186-4] where the key material is directly obtained from an approved [SP
800-90Arev1] HMAC DRBG.

The public and private key pair used in the EC Diffie-Hellman KAS are generated internally. They
are compliant with NIST [SP 800-56Arev3].

The symmetric keys used in the TLSv1.3 and SNMPv3 contexts are derived using an approved
KDF and this method is compliant with section 6.2 of [SP 800-133rev2].

2.10  Key Establishment

Key Agreement

The module provides EC Diffie-Hellman as shared secret computation method to obtain “shared
secrets” values.

The security strength of the preceding algorithms is as follows:

•  EC Diffie-Hellman key agreement provides 128 bits of encryption strength.

16

In addition, the module does support Key Derivation methods, listed below:

•  Protocol-Suite Key Derivation: TLS 1.3 KDF and SNMPv3 KDF4.

Key Transport

The module does not transport secret key or private key. However, the module supports public
key input and output in TLS payload.

2.11  Industry Protocols

Note: no parts of the TLS v1.3 and SNMPv35 protocols, other than the approved cryptographic
algorithms and KDFs, have been tested by the CAVP and CMVP. The following table shows the
cipher suites information available for this cryptographic module:

Protocol

Key Exchange

Server/Host
Authentication

Cipher

Integrity

TLSv1.3

TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256

ECDH

ECDSA

AES-GCM

TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384

ECDH
Table 9: Security Relevant Protocols

ECDSA

AES-GCM

SHS

SHS

2.12  Design and Rules

The  base  and  primary  applications  installed  at  factory  contains  the  Build  server  public  key.
When the module receives an update, the operator executes the Firmware Upload service and
uses  the  mentioned  public  key  to  validate  the  package.  The  verification  is  done  before
installation and corresponding integrity self-tests are executed as well.

2.13  Initialization

No guidance for initialization is declared.

4  This  SNMP  KDF  is  a  non-approved  algorithm  used  by  the  module  as  a  non-security  function  with  no

security claimed.

5 This SNMPv3 protocol implements a KDF using SHA2-256, not  SHA-1 as specified in SP 800-135r1. The
module can only output network metrics containing only non-sensitive status data obfuscated using AES-CFB8. The
status data transmitted over this protocol is considered plaintext. No security is claimed for this protocol.

17

3  Cryptographic Module Interfaces

3.1  Ports and Interfaces

Physical Port
LEDs
Network

Cellular Antennas

Telco

Host(s)

PCM(s)
Console

Reset Switch
Power(s)
USBs

Logical Interface

•  Status Output
•  Control Input
•  Control Output*
•  Status Output
•  Data Input
•  Data Output
•  Control Input
•  Control Output*
•  Status Output
•  Data Input
•  Data Output
•  Control Input
•  Control Output*
•  Status Output
•  Data Input
•  Data Output
•  Data Input
•  Data Output
•  Control Output
•  Control Input
•  Status Output
•  Control Input
•  Power
•  Data Input
•  Data Output

Data that passes over the port/interface
Device Status
CO traffic

User traffic

CO traffic

User traffic

CO traffic

User traffic

User traffic from managed device
User traffic to managed device
User traffic to Power Control Module
CO traffic

Hardware reset signal
VAC and VDC
User traffic from managed device
User traffic to managed device

Table 10: Ports and Interfaces

Note*: A module can be used to remotely administer another module.

User Traffic

Port Authority User Traffic associated with Control Output, Data Input and Data Output logical
interfaces  is  defined  as  traffic  meant  to  access  the  control  interfaces  of  external  devices  or
toggle those device's power via a PCM. The traffic comes into the device via the FIPS secured
mechanism and is then acted upon.

In the case of accessing another device's control interface, this is typically done via the RJ45 or
USB  Host  Ports;  however,  it  may  also  include  using  the  Network  Port  to  access  TCP/IP  based
control interfaces.

18

In the case of toggling another device's power, the Port Authority will send a signal via a RJ-11
PCM port that will tell connected PCM modules to toggle the power on or off.

Crypto Officer Traffic

Port  Authority  Crypto  Officer  (CO)  Traffic  is  associated  with  Control  Input  and  Control  Output
logical interfaces and is defined as traffic meant to configuring and securing the Port Authority
device.

3.2  Trusted Channel Specification

The module does not implement any trusted channels.

3.3  Control Interface Not Inhibited

The control output interface is inhibited when the module is running any self-tests specified in
Section 10.

4  Roles, Services and Authentication

The module includes authentication mechanisms compliant with security level 2 as well as User
and  Crypto  Officer  roles.  The  cryptographic  module  does  support  concurrent  operators  using
TLS  connections,  but  it  does  not  support  concurrent  operators  using  dialup  or  cellular
connection. The Port Authority does not support bypass capability or maintenance role.

4.1  Authentication Methods

The  Port  Authority  supports  two  types  of  authentication  mechanisms,  certificate  and  credential.  The
authentication strength objectives for the modules are:

•  a probability of less than one in 1,000,000 that a single attempt will succeed, and
•  a  probability  of  less  than  one  in  100,000  that  a  random  attempt  will  succeed  for  multiple

attempts during a one-minute period.

Certificate

Either via an existing TLS connection between non-user entities or initiating an TLS connection
directly,  an  operator  presents  a  valid  certificate  that  the  operator  has  been  granted  as  the
Crypto Officer or User role. The certificate is checked in the following way:

1.  The certificate is checked against loaded certificate authority certificates.
2.  The  x509v3  extension  OID  1.3.6.1.4.1.50769.140.3.1  is  checked  to determine  if  the

operator is a User:

a.  If the extension is present, then the user's Common Name become the name

used by the module and is added to the access token.

19

b.  If not, check to determine if operator is a Crypto Officer.

3.  The x509v3 extension OID 1.3.6.1.4.1.50769.140.3.2.2 is checked to determine if the

operator is a Crypto Officer:

a.  If yes, then the admin flag is set for this operator, else not set.

4.  The  x509v3  extension  OID  1.3.6.1.4.1.50769.140.3.2.3  is  checked  to  determine  the

operator's port permissions (access tag):

a.  These tags are added to the access token.
b.  If omitted, the operator will have no access to ports.

This  login  method  relies  on  ECDSA  P-256  and  SHA2-256  to  secure  the  certificate.  Historically,
certificate  attacks  tend  to  target  the  hash  function  via  a  collision  attack.  This  type  of  attack
would  require  2128  hashes  to  be  computed.  Even  if  the  attack  can  leverage  precomputation,
hash  generation  is  bottlenecked  by  computation  power.  The  device  can  only  produce  a  few
hundred hashes per second, and even specially designed farms filled with devices meant to only
generate hashes can produce Gigahashes per second. If all the hash farms worked together and
produced 500 Exahashes second. Putting this all together a single attempt has a 1/(2128) chance
of  succeeding  and  even using  all  the  hashing power the  chance  of  success  in  a  minute  would
be:

500𝑥1018ℎ𝑎𝑠ℎ𝑒𝑠
1 𝑠𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑑

 𝑥

60 𝑠𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑑𝑠
1 𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑢𝑡𝑒

2128ℎ𝑎𝑠ℎ𝑒𝑠

  ≅ 8.8𝑥10−17

Credential

Either  via  an  existing  TLS  connection  between non-user  entities  or  initiating  a TLS  connection
directly, the user presents credentials that correspond to a record in the device indicating User
or Crypto Officer permissions.

The  Port  Authority  provides  identity-based  authentication.  Users  do  not  have  access  until  a
valid  ID  and  Password  are  entered.   The  User  ID  and  Password  each  has  a  minimum  of  8
printable  characters.   The  chance  that  a  random  attempt  will  be  accepted  is  less  than  1  in
1,000,000; every graphic ASCII character can be used (958 = 6.6x1015). For analog calls, after 3
failed  attempts  the  call  will  be  dropped  and  require  re-dialing.  At  most  30  logins  can  be
attempted in 1 minute; therefore, multiple attempts in 1 minute, yielding a strength per minute
of  (30/958). For  cellular  calls,  each  login  attempt  takes  approximately  150ms.  This  means  400
login attempts per minute, yielding a strength per minute of (400/958).

Name

Description

Mechanism

Certificate

Credential

X509v3 for CO
and User roles
ID and Password
for CO and User
roles over analog

Signature
Verification
Identity-based
authentication

Strength of Each
Attempt
2128

Strength per
Minute
8.8x10-17

958

4.5x10-15

20

Credential

ID and Password
for CO and User
roles over cellular

Identity-based
authentication

Table 11: Authentication Methods

4.2  Roles

958

6.0x10-14

The  Port  Authority  unit  supports  the  Crypto  Officer  and  User  roles.  The  module  also  allows
concurrent  operators  with  an  associated  TLS  connection.  The  table  below  lists  the  available
roles:

Name

Crypto Officer
User

Table 12: Roles

Crypto Officer role

Type

Identity
Identity

Operator Type

CO
User

Authentication
Methods
Credential, Certificate
Credential, Certificate

The  module  supports  the  Crypto  Officer  role  for  the  purpose  of  programming  the  user  and
parameters. The Crypto Officer will either connect to the device via two possible methods using
a TLSv1.3-based API or with a serial connection and terminal emulator.

The Crypto Officer can either authenticate to the  module via credential or certificate. In both
situations,  a  time-limited  access  token  will  be  issued  and  used  by  the  operator  when  making
requests  to  perform  configuration  and  management  actions  restricted  to  the  Crypto  Officer
role.

User role

The module supports the User role to access a remote device via the module’s Host, PCM, or
Network port. To gain access to a module’s Host, PCM or Network port, a User must first create
a secure TLS connection and authenticate to the module, either using certificate or credential
authentication.

Once  authenticated,  the  User  will  be  granted  access  to  use  the  User  Access  service  of  the
module.  The  User  needs  at  minimum a  User  ID and  Password to  authenticate  to  the  module.
Certificate-based  authentication  is  also  possible  if  the  User  is  set  up  to  use  certificate-base
authentication by the Crypto Officer.

21

4.3  Approved Services

The Roles SSP Access column has entries for each SSP accessed by that role using that service with the appropriate access indicators

▪  G: The module generates or derives the SSP.
▪  R: The SSP is read from the module (e.g. the SSP is output).
▪  W: The SSP is updated, imported, or written to the module.
▪  E: The module uses the SSP in performing a cryptographic operation.
▪  Z: The module resets the SSP to zero.

The module provides services to operators who assume one of the roles. Only approved services are offered and listed below:

Name

Description

Indicator

Inputs

Outputs

Login

Operator login  Function returns

without error

Login request,
Password,
Operator
Certificate

Login failure, login
success and access
token generated

Security Function
Implementation
AES
ECDSA SigVer
KAS-ECC
SHA2-256
TLS KDF

Roles  Roles SSP

CO
User

Access
Access Token:
E, R
Password: E, Z
Operator
Certificate: E, Z
CA Certificate: E
AES-GCM Key:
G, E
TLS Pre-master
Secret: G, E
TLS Master
Secret: G, E
EC Diffie-
Hellman Public
Key: G, E, R
EC Diffie-
Hellman Private
Key: G, E
ECDSA Public
Key: G, E, R

22

Name

Description

Indicator

Inputs

Outputs

Function returns
without error

Data to and from
managed external
device

Plaintext traffic to
and from managed
external device

User Access

Audit Log

Certificate
Management

Firmware
Upload

Module
Management

Allow user
access to
control
interfaces and
managed
elements
Download
event from
the device
Downloading
CSR and
uploading
certificates
and CA
certificates
Uploading
device
firmware to
be installed
Configuration
of the module

Function returns
without error

Request for
module logs

Function returns
without error

Function returns
without error

Function returns
without error

Request to get a
device’s CSR, set
devices’s
certificate, or set
CA certificate

Request to upload
and install new
firmware or get
install process
Request to get or
set module
parameters

On-demand
Integrity Test

Perform
integrity self-
test

ALM LED blinks,
function returns
without error

Request to run
integrity self-test

23

Response
containing module
logs
Response
containing a CSR or
the status of the set
action

Response
containing upload
or install process
status
Response
containing
parameters or
status of the set
action
ALM  LED blinks
Response
containing integrity
test status (test is
running,  test
passed, or test

Security Function
Implementation

Roles  Roles SSP

Access
ECDSA Private
Key: G, E
Password: Z
AES-GCM Key: E

CO
User

CO

AES-GCM Key: E

CO

Certificate: W, Z
AES-GCM Key: E

HMAC DRBG
ECDSA KeyGen
ECDSA KeyVer
ECDSA SigGen
ECDSA SigVer

ECDSA SigVer

CO

AES-GCM Key: E

CO

Password: W, Z
AES-GCM Key: E

ECDSA SigVer

CO

AES-GCM Key: E

Name

Description

Indicator

Inputs

Outputs

On-demand
Self-test

Perform self-
test

ALM LED blinks,
function returns
without error

Request to run self-
test besides
integrity

Reset

Reset the
device to
factory
default

SEC LED blinks,
function returns
without error

Show Status

Return status
of the module

Function returns
without error

Request to reset

Request for the
status of the
module

Show Version

Zeroisation

Return version
and name of
the module
Zeroize all
SSPs

Table 13: Approved Services

Function returns
without error

Request for the
module version

SEC LED blinks,
function returns
without error

Request for
zeroization or
tamper switch
triggered

failed)
ALM LED blinks
Response
containing self-test
status (test is
running,  test
passed, or test
failed)
SEC LED blinks
(begin boot
sequence)
Device reset to
factory default
SEC LED on
Response
containing module
status and
peripheral
hardware status
Response
containing the
module version
SEC LED blinks
Device set to
factory default

Security Function
Implementation

Roles  Roles SSP

Access

CO

AES-GCM Key: E

CO

All SSPs: Z

CO

AES-GCM Key: E

CO

AES-GCM Key: E

CO

All SSPs: Z

24

4.4  Non-Approved Services

The cryptographic module supports the following non-approved services.

Name
Network Metrics

Description
Transmit network
polling metrics data via
non-approved SNMPv3
protocol
Table 14: Non-Approved Services

Security Functions

Role
Crypto Officer

4.5  External Software/Firmware Loaded

There are two main integrity mechanisms: one for updating packages and one runtime. Both of
these mechanisms rely on:

1.  The build server having a local only private key, and
2.  The  build  server’s  public  key  being  embedded  into  the  primary  application  at

compilation time.

The build server builds the primary application then creates a signature file for it. For other files
in  an update,  corresponding  signature  files  are created  (which  may  be combined).  These  files
are  then bundled  into  a  single  update  file  that will  also be  signed  by the  build  server.  At  this
point, the update file is securely transferred to a customer for update.

An operator acting as the Crypto Officer then uses the REST API and an admin token to send the
package  to  the  device.  The  device  will  first  verify  the  package  file  has  been  signed  by  the
trusted  build  server,  else  it  will  not  proceed.  It  will  then  install  the  primary  application  and
other  files  to  their  desired  directories.  Finally,  it  will  fail  over  the  new  code  and  trigger  a
runtime integrity check.

A  runtime  integrity  check  will  be performed  at  boot.  It  will  first  find  the signature file for  the
primary application and verify its own integrity before proceeding. It will verify the integrity of
all  files  in other  signature  files.  Assuming  all the  files pass this  verification the  integrity  check
passes.

Only  firmware  validated  by  the  CMVP  shall  be  loaded to  maintain  module  validation.  Loading
firmware  updates  that  have  not  been  validated  means  the  module  is  no  longer  a  validated
module.

4.6  Bypass Actions and Status

The Port Authority does not support bypass capability.

25

4.7  Cryptographic Output Actions and Status

No output of CSPs are declared for this cryptographic module.

5  Software/Firmware Security

5.1  Integrity Techniques

The  software  components  of  the  module  are  validated by using  a  Digital  Signature  (ECDSA  P-
256)  approved  technique.  A  runtime  integrity  check  will  be  performed  at  boot  automatically
and  can be  run on demand.  It will  first find  the  signature  file  for  the  primary application and
verify its own integrity before proceeding. It will verify the integrity of all files in other signature
files. If all the files pass this verification the integrity check passes.

5.2  Initiate on Demand

The  module  provides  on-demand  integrity  test.  The  integrity  test  is  performed  by  the  On-
demand  Integrity  test  service,  which  is  called  on  request  and  verifying  the  signature  as
explained in the Integrity Techniques section.

6  Operational Environment

6.1  Operational Environment Type and Requirements

The Port Authority uses a limited operational environment. The code is stored in a FLASH chip
in  binary  executable  format.  A  Crypto  Officer  can  only  modify  the  existing  code  in  the  Port
Authority by issuing an authenticated update command with a signed firmware package.

Type of Operational Environment

The module works in a limited operational environment.

6.2  Configuration Settings and Restrictions

The module should be installed as stated in section 11.

7  Physical Security

7.1  Mechanisms and Actions Required

Physical security
Mechanism

Recommended
Frequency of
Inspection/Test

Inspection/Test Guidance Details

26

Physical security
Mechanism

Tamper Seal

Recommended
Frequency of
Inspection/Test
12 months

Tamper Switch

Inspection/Test Guidance Details

A pristine tamper evident seal appears smooth
and uniform, firmly adhering to the surface of
the device. By closely examining the seal, one
can determine whether any tampering has
occurred. Attempted removal of the seal may
exhibit one or more of the following signs:
1.  The silver adhesive layer displays

separation or irregularities, forming a
noticeable pattern. The printed text
may become separated or misaligned
from the silver adhesive layer.

2.  Blistering, bubbling, or the presence of
bumps on the seal's surface, causing it
to lose its smooth and flat appearance.
These surface irregularities may
become apparent when tilting the seal
in the light.

3.  The edges of the seal show signs of

lifting or failing to stay adhered. It can
be easily lifted by gently sliding a pick or
fingernail under its edge.

4.  Residue of adhesive is detectable

around the edges of the seal, indicating
it has been removed and replaced.

The tamper switch will trip if an attempt is
made to remove the top cover. The top cover
for all units must be removed in order to access
the chassis base and Printed Circuit Board(s).If
the tamper switch is tripped, the SRAM
containing the unit parameters, audit trail, keys
and operator information will be zeroed. The
zeroization circuit will activate regardless of if
the SRAM is powered by the battery backup or
powered by AC.

Table 15: Mechanisms and Actions Required

The Port Authority series module is a multi-chip standalone cryptographic module, consisting of
a  number  of  IC  chips  mounted  on  a  printed  circuit  board  contained  within  a  protected
enclosure. The enclosure contains tamper seals that will be destroyed if an attempted is made
to remove them.

Each  cryptographic  module  has  a  number  of  tamper  evident  seals  applied  as  shown  in  the
following section.

27

7.2  Factory Placed Tamper Seals

The  Crypto  Officer  may  replace  damaged  tamper  seals.  The  Crypto  Officer  must  ensure  the
module surface is clean and dry before applying the tamper seals.

Number:

▪  PA111-SA: 2 tamper seals
▪  PA111-RM, PA121-RM, PA155-RM, PA199-RM: 4 tamper seals

Placement:

▪  middle of left side and right side (all models)
▪  middle of front seam (PA111-RM, PA121-RM, PA155-RM, and PA199-RM)
▪  middle of back seam (PA111-RM, PA121-RM, PA155-RM, and PA199-RM)

Surface Preparation: cleaned with alcohol before placement

Operator Responsible for Securing Unused Seals: Crypto Officer

Part Numbers: NOVA Vision XUG6-K222-60S

Below are the pictures illustrating the placement of the tamper seals on the modules:

PA111-SA

Figure 11: PA111-SA Tamper Seal at Side/Bottom

PA121-RM

Figure 12: PA111-SA Tamper Seal at Side/Bottom

28
Figure 13: PA121-RM Tamper Seals at Side/Bottom and Front/Bottom

Figure 14: PA121-RM Tamper Seals at Side/Bottom and Rear/Top

PA111-RM, PA155-RM, and PA199-RM

Figure 15: PA111-RM, PA155-RM, PA199-RM Tamper Seals at front/Top and Side/Bottom

Figure 16: PA111-RM, PA155-RM, PA199-RM Tamper Seals at Rear/Bottom

8  Non-Invasive Security

The module does not implement any non-invasive mitigation techniques.

9  Sensitive Security Parameters Management

9.1  Storage Areas

Name
SRAM
Flash
RAM

Description
Port Authority backup memory
Port Authority non-volatile memory
Port Authority working memory

Persistence Type
Volatile
Non-volatile
Volatile

Table 16: Storage Areas

9.2  SSP Input-Output Methods

Name

From

To

Format Type  Distribution

Type

29

Entry
Type

SFI or
Algorithm

Name

From

To

Format Type  Distribution

Encrypted

Type
Manual

Entry
Type
Electronic  TLS-KTS

SFI or
Algorithm

TLS Payload-Out6  RAM

Outside
the crypto
boundary
Flash
RAM

Outside
the crypto
boundary
SRAM

Outside
the crypto
boundary
RAM

Outside
the crypto
boundary
RAM

Factory Pre-load7  Manufacturer
KAS-In

Outside the
crypto
boundary
RAM

Outside the
crypto
boundary
Outside the
crypto
boundary
Outside the
crypto
boundary
Outside the
crypto
boundary
RAM

KAS-Out

Load Cert

Operator
Password Entry

Operator Set
Password Entry8

Token-In

Token-Out

TLS Handshake-In  Outside the

TLS Handshake-
Out

TLS Payload-In

crypto
boundary
RAM

Outside the
crypto
boundary

Plaintext
Plaintext

N/A
Automated

N/A
Electronic  KAS-SSC

N/A

Plaintext

Automated

Electronic  KAS-SSC

Encrypted

Manual

Electronic  TLS-KTS

RAM

Encrypted

Manual

Electronic  SHA2-256

SRAM

Encrypted

Manual

Electronic  SHA2-256

RAM

Encrypted

Automated

Encrypted

Automated

Electronic  ECDSA
SigVer

Electronic  ECDSA
SigGen

Plaintext

Automated

Electronic  N/A

Plaintext

Automated

Electronic  N/A

Encrypted

Automated

Electronic  AES

Table 17: SSP Input-Output Methods

9.3  SSP Zeroization Methods

Method

Description

Rationale

Operator Initiation

6 Server public key outputs as certificate signing request.
7  Key  is  pre-loaded  by  manufacturer  and  new  firmware  may  contain  the  key  for  validating  the  next

firmware.

8  Only  Crypto  Officer  can  create  new  operator  (Crypto  Officer  or  User)  and  set  the  password  for  the
operator. The module does not allow User to change password; only Crypto Office can change password on behalf
of User.

30

Reset/Zeroization
service

Zeroization of
persistent SSPs

Tamper response

Per connection

Zeroization of
persistent SSPs

Zeroization of
ephemeral SSPs

Capability
Yes

N/A

N/A

SSPs are zeroed when
the operator invokes
the service
SSPs are zeroed when
tamper switch is
tripped
Ephemeral SSPs related
to TLS and SNMP
protocols are zeroed
when connection
closed

Table 18: SSP Zeroization

9.4  SSPs

Name

Description

AES-GCM Key /
CSP

Session key for
TLS connection

TLS Pre- master
Secret / CSP

Pre- master
secret for TLS
connections

TLS Master
Secret / CSP

Master secret
for TLS
connection

Size -
Strength
128 - 128,
256 - 128

Type

Generated
By

Symmetric key  Derived
from TLS
Master
Secret

384 – 128

Keying material  N/A

384 – 128

Keying material

EC Diffie-
Hellman Public
Key / PSP

Asymmetric key
used during EC
Diffie-Hellman

P-256 -
128

EC Diffie-
Hellman Public
Key (operator)
/ PSP
EC Diffie-
Hellman
Private Key /
CSP
ECDSA Public
Key / PSP

Asymmetric key
used during EC
Diffie-Hellman

P-256 –
128

Asymmetric key
used during EC
Diffie-Hellman

P-256 –
128

Asymmetric key
used during TLS
authentication

P-256 –
128

Public key

Public key

Private key

Public key

31

Established
By
TLSv1.3
KDF

Used By

TLS

TLS
handshake

TLS
handshake

N/A

TLS
handshake

N/A

KAS-SSC

N/A

KAS-SSC

N/A

KAS-SSC

N/A

TLS
handshake

Internally
derived by
TLSv3 KDF
from TLS
Pre-master
Secret
Internal ly
generated
per SP 800-
56Arev3
N/A

Internally
generated
per SP 800-
56Arev3
Internally
generated
per FIPS

P-256 -
128

P-256 -
128

P-256 -
128

P-256 -
128

Established
By

Used By

Size -
Strength

P-256 –
128

Type

Private key

Public key

Generated
By
186-4
Internally
generated
per FIPS
186-4
External

N/A

N/A

Public key

Internal

N/A

Public key

External

N/A

TLS
handshake

TLS
handshake

TLS
handshake

TLS
handshake

Public key

External

N/A

mTLS

256 - 128

DRBG secret

Internal

N/A

256 - 128

DRBG secret

Internal

N/A

440 - 128

440 - 128

Entropy bit
string
DRBG secret

Internal

N/A

Internal

N/A

DRBG

DRBG

DRBG

DRBG

Authentication  N/A

N/A

SHA2-256

Minimum
of 8
characters

256

Authentication

Internal

N/A

SHA2-256

Name

Description

ECDSA Private
Key / CSP

Asymmetric key
used during TLS
authentication

ECDSA Public
Key Certificate
/ PSP
Server Self-
signed
Certificate /
PSP
ECDSA Public
Key Certificate
(operator) /
PSP
CA Certificate /
PSP

DRBG V / CSP

DRBG Key /
CSP
Entropy Input /
CSP
DRBG Seed /
CSP

ECDSA Public
Key Certificate
issued by a CA
ECDSA Public
Key Certificate

ECDSA Public
Key Certificate
issued by a CA

CA public key
for certificate
validation
DRBG internal
state
DRBG internal
state
Bit string for
seed generation
Bit string to
instantiate the
DRBG

Password / CSP  Credential for

operator
authentication
(Salted SHA2-
256 protected)
Password hash

Hashed
Password / CSP
Operator
Certificate /
PSP

Access Token /
CSP

Client ECDSA
public key
certificate for
mTLS
Time-limited
access token

P-256 -
128

P-256 -
128

Public key

External

N/A

Signature

Internal

N/A

TLS
handshake /
Login

ECDSA
SigGen /
ECDSA SigVer

Table 19: SSP Table 1

32

Name

Input - Output

Storage

AES-GCM Key /
CSP

N/A - N/A

RAM

Zeroization

Storage
Duration
Per connection  Per connection,

tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization
service

TLS Pre- master
Secret / CSP

TLS Master
Secret / CSP

EC Diffie-
Hellman Public
Key / PSP

EC Diffie-
Hellman Public
Key (operator)
/ PSP
EC Diffie-
Hellman
Private Key /
CSP

N/A - N/A

RAM

Per connection  Per connection,

tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization
service

N/A - N/A

RAM

Per connection  Per connection,

tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization
service

N/A - KAS-Out

RAM

Per connection  Per connection,

tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization
service

KAS-In - N/A

RAM

Per connection  Per connection,

tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization
service

N/A - N/A

RAM

Per connection  Per connection,

tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization
service

ECDSA Public
Key / PSP

N/A - TLS
Payload-Out

SRAM

Per connection  Per connection,

ECDSA Private
Key / CSP

ECDSA Public
Key Certificate
/ PSP

N/A - N/A

SRAM

SRAM -
RAM

Load Cert -
TLS
Handshake-
Out

Server Self-
signed

N/A - TLS
Handshake-

SRAM

Until replace
by new ECDSA
Key Pair by CO
Until replace
by new ECDSA
Key Pair by CO
- Per
connection
Until replace
by new ECDSA

33

tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization
service
Tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization
service
Tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization
service

Tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization

ECDSA Public
Key

Related SSPs

Derived from
TLS Master
Secret

EC Diffie-
Hellman
Private Key,
EC Diffie
Hellman Public
Key
Derived from
TLS Pre-
master Secret

EC Diffie-
Hellman
Private Key, EC
Diffie-Hellman,
TLS Pre-master
Secret
TLS Pre-master
Secret

EC Diffie-
Hellman Public
Key, EC Diffie-
Hellman Public
Key (operator),
TLS Pre-master
Secret
ECDSA Private
key

ECDSA Public
key

ECDSA Public
Key, ECDSA
Private Key

Name

Input - Output

Storage

Zeroization

Related SSPs

Certificate /
PSP
ECDSA Public
Key Certificate
(operator) /
PSP
CA Certificate /
PSP

Out

TLS
Handshake-In -
N/A

Load Cert -
N/A

RAM

N/A

SRAM

N/A

DRBG V / CSP

N/A / N/A

RAM

DRBG Key / CSP  N/A / N/A

RAM

Entropy Input

N/A / N/A

RAM

N/A / N/A

DRBG Seed /
CSP
Password / CSP  TLS Payload-In

RAM

SRAM

- N/A

Storage
Duration
Key Pair by CO

service

Per connection,
tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization
service
Tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization
service

Reboot

Reboot

Periodically
updated
Periodically
updated
DRBG reseed

Automatic at end
of function call
Automatic at end
of function call
Per connection  Per connection,

DRBG reseed

tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization
service

CA Certificate

Used to verify
the trusted
chain of
certificate
DRBG Seed

DRBG Seed

DRBG Seed

Entropy Input

N/A

Hashed
Password / CSP

Operator
Certificate /
PSP

N/A – N/A

RAM

Per connection  Per connection,

Password

tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization
service

KAS-In - N/A

RAM

Per connection  Per connection,

N/A

tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization
service

Access Token /
CSP

Token-In -
Token-Out

Table 20: SSP Table 2

RAM

Per connection  Per connection,

tamper response,
Reset/Zeroization
service

ECDSA Public
Key - ECDSA
Private Key

34

10  Self-Tests

10.1 Pre-Operational Self-Tests

The module performs pre-operational self-test automatically when the module powers on. The
ECDSA SigVer and SHA2-256 conditional known answer tests are performed before performing
the  pre-operational  module  integrity  test.  The  integrity  of  the  software  component  is  then
verified according to section 5, using a digital signature. If the  known answer test or  integrity
test fails, the module transits to the Error state.

The  module  also  performs  the  cryptographic  algorithms  self-tests  and  critical  function  test
defined in section 10.2.

In addition, the CDI CPU Time Jitter entropy source performs start-up health testing as part of
the Critical Function Tests.

Algorithm
or Test
ECDSA

Test
Properties
P-256

Test Method

Type

Indicator

Details

Signature
Verification

Software
Integrity

SEC LED blinking  Signature Verification

Table 21: Pre-Operational Self-Tests

10.2 Conditional Self-Tests

Cryptographic Algorithm Self-Tests

The  module  performs  self-tests  on  approved  cryptographic  algorithms  supported  in  the
approved mode of operation. Data output is inhibited during the self-tests. The cryptographic
algorithm  self-tests  are  performed  in  the  form  of  Known  Answer  Tests  (KATs),  in  which  the
calculated output is compared with the expected known answer.

The  module  performs  testing  on  the  continuous  outputs  of  the  entropy  source.  The  CDI  CPU
Time Jitter entropy source executes the APT, RCT and Lag tests as approved health testing.

If any of these self-tests fails, the module transitions to the Error state.

Conditional Pairwise Consistency Tests

The  module  implements  the  ECDSA  algorithm  and  key  generation  and  performs  the  pairwise
consistency test using sign and verify functions when the keys are generated.

In addition, the assurance for the KAS-ECC-SSC (per section 5.6.2 of SP 800-56Arev3, required
by [IG] D.F) is verified by running conditional testing on the ephemeral key pairs created during
the key agreement.

35

Conditional Software/Firmware Load Test

When  the  module  receives  an  update  as  a  result  of  the  execution  of  the  Firmware  Upload
service,  the  conditional  software  load  test  is  executed  and  the  module  applies  a  digital
signature integrity technique to verify the validity of the firmware.

Conditional Manual Entry Test

When  setting  or  changing  a  password,  the  module  uses  duplicate  entries  to prevent error on
the part of the human operator could result in the incorrect entry of the intended value.

36

The following table summarizes the content of the previous subsections:

Algorithm
or Test
AES-ECB

Test Properties

128, 256

Test
Method
KAT

Type

Indicator

Details

Condition

CAST

LED signal

Encrypt / Decrypt

CAST

LED signal

Encrypt / Decrypt

CAST

LED signal  Message

Authentication
Code

CAST

LED signal  Message Digest

CAST

LED signal

ENT conditioner

CAST

LED signal

Sign / Verify

CAST

LED signal

CAST

LED signal

CAST

LED signal

Shared Secret
Computation
Key Derivation

Random Bit
Generation

Run during
power-up

Run during
power-up
Run during
power-up

Run during
power-up
Run during
power-up
Run during
power-up
Run during
power-up
Run during
power-up
Run during
power-up

AES-GCM

128, 256

HMAC

SHS

SHS

SHA2-256,
SHA2-384

SHA2-256,
SHA2-384
SHA3-256

ECDSA

P-256

KAS-ECC-
SSC
TLSv1.3
KDF
DRBG

ECDSA

KAS-ECC-
SSC
ECDSA

P-256

HMAC_DRBG,
Instantiate,
Reseed and
Generate
P-256

P-256

P-256

KAT

KAT

KAT

KAT

KAT

KAT

KAT

KAT

PCT

PCT

CPCT

LED signal

Sign / Verify

CPCT

LED signal

SP 800-56Arev3
assurance checks
Digital Signature

Signature
Verification

CFLT

LED signal

ENT

APT, RCT and
Lag health tests

CCFT

LED signal

SP 800-90B Health
tests for Entropy
Sources

Table 22: Conditional Self-Tests

37

Key Pair
Generation
Shared Secret
Computation
Software
update
signature
verification
Run during
power-up (on
1,024 samples)
and runtime
health tests

10.3 Periodic Self-Tests

On demand self-tests can be invoked by executing the services On-demand Self-tests and On-
demand Integrity test. The services request the self-test after the boot initialization sequence.

During the execution of the on-demand self-tests, cryptographic services are not available, and
no data output or input is possible.

10.4  Error States

State Name
Error

Description
Any pre-
operational self-
test,
cryptographic
algorithms self-
tests, or critical
function test
failure

Conditions
Initialization
error, self-test
error or general
error from any
state lead to the
Error state

Recovery Method
Reboot or hard
reset

Indicator
ALM LED on

Table 23: Error States

If the module fails any of the self-tests, or receives an error from the system initialization or any
other  operational  state,  the  module  outputs  an  error  and  stops  functioning,  and  the  output
interface  is  inhibited  as  well.  To  recover  from  the  Error  state,  the  operator  must  perform  a
reboot or hard reset, and the module will execute all the pre-operational self-tests again.

11  Life-Cycle Assurance

11.1 Installation, Initialization, and Startup Procedures

The base image and the primary applications are installed at factory and no other startup steps
are needed.

11.2  Administrator Guidance

CDI will send a serial number list electronically and securely to the customer. When the module
is delivered the Crypto Officer can compare the serial number of the module against the list CDI
provided and check against tampering following the Inspection/Test Guidance in Section 7.1. If
any tamper evident seal is damaged, the Crypto Officer shall contact manufacturer to replace
the module.

The  module  requires  the  Crypto  Officer to reset  the  default  the  CO  password  upon  accessing
the module for the first time or after a hard reset. The Crypto Officer should choose a password
of minimum length of 8 characters with sufficient complexity and secrecy.

38

The Crypto Officer should check the name and version information matches the following by a
request to “/v1/fips/versions”:

{"Hardware":"PA111","FirmVer":"1.0.0","BldVer":"F13-1","RepoVer":"
c406cc110c5c8422440c8a6ca79838238ae8f5ea "},
{"Hardware":"PA121","FirmVer":"1.0.0","BldVer":"F13-1","RepoVer":"
c406cc110c5c8422440c8a6ca79838238ae8f5ea "},
{"Hardware":"PA155","FirmVer":"1.0.0","BldVer":"F13-1","RepoVer":"
c406cc110c5c8422440c8a6ca79838238ae8f5ea "}, or
{"Hardware":"PA199","FirmVer":"1.0.0","BldVer":"F13-1","RepoVer":"
c406cc110c5c8422440c8a6ca79838238ae8f5ea "}

The  Crypto  Officer  is  in  charge  of  executing  the  Firmware  Upload  service  when  an  update  is
released. The CO shall only upload firmware validated by the CMVP.

If  a  tamper  evident  seal  is  damaged  by  accident,  the  CO  shall  replace  the  damaged  seal
following the instructions illustrated in Section 7.

11.3  Non-Administrator Guidance

There is no specific procedures for non-administrator operators.

11.4  Maintenance Requirements

There are no maintenance requirements or maintenance role.

11.5  End of Life

To decommission the module, the CO shall execute the Reset/Zeroization service. This process
will erase all SSPs contained within the cryptographic module. After that, the module shall be
disposed of or distributed to other operators.

12  Mitigation of Other Attacks

The module does not mitigate other attacks outside the scope of FIPS 140-3.

13  Acronyms

AES
ASCII
CA
CAST
CAVP

Advance Encryption System
American Standard Code for Information Interchange
Certificate Authority
Cryptographic Algorithm Self-test
Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program

39

CCFT
CDI
CFLT
CMVP
CPCT
CO
CSR
DH
DRAM
EC
EIA/RS232
EIA/RS232 Signals

Flash
HMAC
KAT
Kbps
Mbps
MAC
NIST
OBM
PA
PCM
RM
RNG
SRAM
SA
VAC
VDC

Conditional Critical Function Test
Communication Devices, Inc.
Conditional Firmware Load Test
Cryptographic Module Validation Program
Conditional Pair-Wise Consistency Test
Crypto Officer
Certificate Signing Request
Diffie-Hellman
Dynamic Random Access Memory
Elliptical Curve
Modem/Host Serial Interface
DCD Data Carrier Detect
DTR Data Terminal Ready
RTS Request to Send
CTS Clear to Send
GND Signal Return (Ground)
Data Set Ready
TxD Transmit Data
RxD Received Data
Flash Solid State Memory
Hash-based Message Authentication Code
Known Answer Test
Kilo Bauds per Second
Mega Bits per second
Message Authentication Code
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Out of Band Management
Port Authority
Power Control Module
Rack Mounted
Random Number Generator
Static Random Access Memory
Stand Alone
Voltage Alternating Current
Voltage Direct Current

40

